BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Energy and Climate Protection supply). Both Corporate Strategy & Sustainability and Net Zero Accelerator report to the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors. This integrates climate protection-relevant aspects into strategic decision-making processes and core business activities. In parallel, our operating divisions are working on divisional- specific projects to reduce emissions. They are supported here by the global service units. We report on greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as well as the sector-specific standard for the chemical industry. We consistently align our actions with our climate protection targets, based on a comprehensive analysis of our emissions. Group-wide CO 2 emissions are anchored in the BASF Group's steering and compensation systems as a most important nonfinancial key performance indicator, giving them even more weight. Steering also includes assessing investments and acquisitions with regard to their impact on our climate protection targets. We are gradually integrating our suppliers into the management of greenhouse gas emissions along the value chain. To this end, we launched the Supplier CO 2 Management Program in 2021. We offer our customers solutions that help prevent greenhouse gas emissions, and improve energy and resource efficiency. To increase transparency for our customers and target our CO 2 reduction mea- sures to those areas where they bring the greatest added value, we continuously determine the Product Carbon Footprint for around 45,000 sales products. We continuously analyze potential risks to our business operations arising in connection with the topics of energy and climate protection and derive appropriate measures. We support the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Since the 2019 reporting year, BASF's annual report has included an overview showing the sections and subsections in which TCFD-relevant information can be found. We also participate in the program established by the international nonprofit organization CDP for reporting on data relevant to climate protection and have done so since 2004. BASF again achieved a score of A- in CDP's 2022 climate change questionnaire, maintaining its Leadership status. Companies on the Leadership level are distinguished by factors such as the completeness and transparency of their reporting. They also pursue comprehensive approaches in managing the opportunities and risks associated with climate change as well as strategies to achieve company-wide emission reduction goals. All parts of society must work together to effectively protect the climate. This is why we support various national and international initiatives and are involved in partnerships. For example, in 2022 we provided funding to help the Science Based Targets initiative launch a project to derive science-based climate protection targets for the chemical sector, in which we are also involved as a member of an advisory group. As part of Together for Sustainability, in 2022 we were involved in the creation of a uniform guideline for calculating the carbon footprint of products in the chemical industry. For more information on climate protection and carbon management, see basf.com/climate_protection For more information on the CDP climate change questionnaire, see basf.com/en/cdp 1 Scope 1 and Scope 2. The target includes greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which are converted into CO 2 equivalents.Global targets Compared with the 2018 baseline, we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our production sites and our energy purchases by 25% by 2030.1 This means that we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 21.9 million metric tons to 16.4 million metric tons - despite our growth plans and the construction of a new Verbund site in southern China. This corresponds to a decrease of around 60% compared with 1990. Our long-term goal is net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.1 2030 and 2050 targets -25% Reduction in our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared with 2018 aNet zero Greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 a a BASF operations excluding sale of energy to third parties, including offsetting The BASF Group's emissions reported under these targets in 2022 amounted to 18.4 million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents. The increase in natural gas prices in Europe due to the war in Ukraine, weaker demand due to a slowing economy over the course of the year and several lockdowns in China led to a significant reduction in production volumes and, as a result, emissions in 2022. This particularly affected the emissions- intensive ammonia value chain. The share of electricity from renew- able sources was kept roughly constant compared with the previous year and, together with measures to increase energy and process efficiency, made a relevant contribution to reducing emissions. For more information on climate protection, see page 27 A projection of greenhouse gas emissions in 2023 can be found in the forecast from page 154 onward 136 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Energy and Climate Protection Energy supply Our total energy consumption was 52.9 million MWh in 2022 , significantly below the prior-year figure due to the lower production levels. Total energy consumption includes fuel demand in our own central power and steam generation plants, primary energy requirements in our process plants, and net power and steam imports. To generate our own steam and power, we mainly use natural gas and substitute fuels. The latter are residues from chemical production plants that cannot be reused in the BASF Verbund. In 2022, we covered more than 54% of our electricity demand with our own gas and steam turbines in highly efficient combined heat and power plants. Combined heat and power generation reduces the carbon footprint of our energy production and simultaneously ensures that fuels are used as efficiently as possible: For instance, compared with separate methods of generating steam and electricity, we saved 12.0 million MWh of fossil fuels and avoided 2.4 million metric tons of carbon emissions in 2022. To achieve the highest possible energy yield with the lowest possible greenhouse gas emissions, we continuously invest in our combined heat and power plants. In 2022, internally generated power in the BASF Group had a carbon footprint of around 0.25 metric tons of CO 2 per MWh of electricity and was below the national grid factor at most BASF sites. The Verbund system is also key to carbon-optimized energy supply at our sites. It helps us realize synergies and manage value chains in a resource-efficient way. For example, waste heat from one plant's production process is used as energy in other plants. The Verbund saved us around 19.0 million MWh in 2022, which translates to 3.8 million metric tons less CO 2 released into the environment. With combined power and steam generation as well as our continuously optimized Energy Verbund, we were thus able to avoid a total of 6.2 million metric tons of carbon emissions in 2022. That is why we will continue to invest in the creation and optimization of Verbund structures and drive forward the consolidation of production at highly efficient sites.A core component in reducing our greenhouse gas emissions is the gradual conversion of our energy supply from fossil to renewable sources as part of our carbon management. This mainly affects our electricity supply. In 2022, electricity from renewable sources as a share of total electricity consumption could be kept constant at 16%. Our electricity requirements will increase significantly in the coming years due to the planned electrification of our steam generation and the gradual switch from natural gas-based to electricity-based, low-carbon production pro- cesses, for example in our steam crackers. We aim to source more than 60% of our power needs from renewable sources by 2030. Based on our growth forecast, this is roughly equivalent to our total power demand in 2021. In the transformation of our power supply, we are pursuing a make & buy approach. Firstly, BASF is investing in its own renewable power assets, particularly offshore wind farms. Secondly, BASF will purchase green power on the market through long-term supply agreements with plant operators, green power agreements or renewable energy certificates, depending on the region and market regulations. A key purchasing criterion is the additionality of the electricity purchased. This means that electricity is primarily sourced from new renewable energy facilities. In 2022, we successfully drove forward the transformation of our power supply. Work on the Hollandse Kust Zuid offshore wind farm, a joint project with Vattenfall and Allianz, is proceeding according to plan. The offshore wind farm should be fully operational in 2023. With 140 turbines and a capacity of 1.5 gigawatts, Hollandse Kust Zuid will then be one of the largest subsidy-free offshore wind farms in the world. Our new solar power plant at the Schwarzheide site in Germany went online at the end of August 2022. We operate it Energy supply of the BASF Group 2022 14.2 million MWh 40.4 million MWhaFossil fuels and residual fuels used in the BASF Group's central power and steam generation plants 16% Renewable 44% Waste heat30% Nonrenewable 54% Nonrenewable 13% Purchased 43% Internally generatedElectricity supplya Steam supplyNatural gas 26.1 million MWh 77.4% Heating oil 0.8 million MWh 2.4% Coal 0.9 million MWh 2.7% Substitute fuels 5.9 million MWh 17.5% 33.7 million MWh Total: a Conversion factor: 0.75 MWh per metric ton of steam 137 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Energy and Climate Protection jointly with envia Mitteldeutsche Energie AG. Most of the electricity generated will be used to supply the Schwarzheide site and cover around 10% of the site's current annual electricity demand on average. In addition to these cooperative ventures, in 2022 we concluded further long-term supply agreements for green power. In North America, for example, we have secured around 250 megawatts of wind and solar generation capacity through virtual power purchase agreements with Dawn Solar and EDF Energy Services. BASF has also signed a 12-year supply agreement with X-ELIO to supply 48 megawatts of solar power to the Freeport site in Texas. In China, we initiated further long-term supply agreements for green power with the State Power Investment Corporation and Brookfield, including for our new Verbund site in Zhanjiang, which is currently under construction. Our aim is to supply the site entirely with electricity from renewable sources from the start-up phase of the large-scale plants in 2025 - much earlier than originally planned. In some regions, we have also acquired green power certificates. The aim is to gradually replace these temporary measures with our own power assets or long-term supply agreements. In total, over 108 sites worldwide were already partially or fully powered by renewable energy at the end of 2022. The carbon footprint of purchased electricity in 2022 was around 0.24 metric tons of CO 2/MWh , slightly above the previous year's level. The second lever for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our energy supply starts with the production of steam. In the future, new technologies should make a significant contribution to reducing CO 2, for example by recovering energy from the waste heat of our production and infrastructure facilities. To e xplore the potential of various technologies, in 2022, for example, we initiated a joint feasibility study with MAN Energy Solutions on the construction of an industrial-scale heat pump at the Ludwigshafen site in Germany. This could generate up to 150 metric tons of steam per hour from previously unused wastewater heat, reducing the site's CO 2 emissions by up to 390,000 metric tons per year. Energy efficiency and specific greenhouse gas emissions Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions are closely linked to capacity utilization at our plants as well as our product port - folio. Specific greenhouse gas emissions in 2022 amounted to 0.577 metric tons of CO 2 equivalents per metric ton of sales product,1 an increase of 2.3% compared with the previous year. This was mainly due to lower and less uniform capacity utilization at our plants compared with the previous year, which led Additional indicators for energy and climate protection in BASF operations 2022 20212018 Specific greenhouse gas emissionsa 0.577 0.564 0.577 Primary energy demandc 54,206 57,627 60,586 Energy efficiency 589 621 626 a Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to the GHG Protocol, excluding emissions from the generation of steam and electricity for sale to third parties, including offsetting b Sales product volumes include sales between BASF Group companies; merchandise is not taken into account. c Primary energy used in BASF's plants as well as in the plants of our energy suppliers to cover energy demand for production processes. Purchased renewable energy has a primary energy conversion efficiency rate of 100%.to reduced plant efficiency. By contrast, the use of renewable energy had a positive impact on specific greenhouse gas emissions. Since 1990, we have been able to lower our overall greenhouse gas emissions from BASF operations by 54.1% and even reduce specific emissions by 74.8 %. As part of our carbon management, we aim to make our plants and processes even more efficient and resource saving. Certified energy management systems according to DIN EN ISO 50001 at all relevant production sites2 play a particularly important role here. These help us to identify and implement further potential for improvement in energy efficiency. This not only reduces greenhouse gas emissions and saves valuable energy resources but also increases our competitiveness. In 2022, 76 production sites worldwide had certified energy management systems, representing 87.7% of our primary energy demand. Certified energy management systems at BASF Group sites worldwide, in terms of primary energy demand % A global working group provides ongoing support to the sites and Group companies in implementing and maintaining certified energy management systems. All energy efficiency measures are recorded in a global database, analyzed and made available to BASF sites as examples of best practices.2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 202290.2 91.085.1 69.9 54.387.7 1 Sales product volumes include sales between BASF Group companies; merchandise is not taken into account. 2 Relevant sites are selected based on the amount of primary energy used and local energy prices. 138 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Energy and Climate Protection In 2022, we implemented more than 500 measures to reduce energy and resource consumption and increase our competitiveness. At the Chongqing site in China, for example, modifications to the wastewater treatment process reduced heat demand and the resulting emissions by more than 2,500 metric tons of CO 2 per year. At a plant at the Kuantan site in Malaysia, an optimized control system allowed existing flash steam to be fully utilized, reducing additional steam demand. This enables an emissions reduction of over 1,500 metric tons of CO 2 per year. At the Ludwigshafen site in G ermany, the innovative design of a new residue incineration line enables the more efficient use of combustion heat to produce steam. This avoids more than 5,000 metric tons of CO 2 emissions every year. Our employees ideas are an important source of optimization. Award-winning suggestions for improvements implemented in 2022 will enable us to save around 9,000 metric tons of CO 2 per year at the Ludwigshafen site in Germany alone. Corporate carbon footprint BASF has published a comprehensive corporate carbon footprint every year since 2008. This reports on all emissions along the value chain - from raw materials extraction to production and disposal. We are continually working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both in our own production and, together with our partners, along the value chain.In 2022, our greenhouse gas emissions according to the Green- house Gas Protocol, including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were 19.185 million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents. Of this amount, 86% were Scope 1 emissions and 14% were Scope 2 emissions. Carbon dioxide was by far the largest component and accounted for 98% of emissions. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions arising upstream and downstream of our operations in the value chain are calculated in accordance with the Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the WBCSD Guidance for Accounting and Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Both standards involve the use of values from general databases. For 2022, we calculated Scope 3 emissions of around 92 million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents. There was a significant reduction in total emissions along the BASF value chain in 2022 due to lower production volumes.Our supply chain made the largest contribution to Scope 3 in 2022, with 54 million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents. To calculate these upstream greenhouse gas emissions, we used information on the carbon footprint of raw materials, primarily from external databases. We intend to gradually replace this with data from our Supplier CO 2 Management Program. In 2022, we were involved in the creation of new Together for Sustainability recommendations for determining supply chain emissions to improve reporting transparency and consistency across the industry. Scope 3 emissions along the BASF value chain in 2022a Million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents a According to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol; Scope 1, 2 and 3; reported categories within Scope 3 are shown in parentheses. Scope 3 emissions in category 10 are not reported according to the standard for the chemical sector. Only direct use phase emissions are reported in the customer category. For more information on our Scope 3 emissions reporting, see basf.com/corporate_carbon_footprintSuppliers Purchased products, services and capital goods Transport Transport of products, employees commuting and business travel Customers Emissions from the use of end products Other BASF Production Disposal Incineration with energy recovery, landﬁlling 54 19 43 5 26 139 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Energy and Climate Protection The disposal of our products accounted for 26 million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents , the second-largest share of our Scope 3 emissions. This figure is based on assump- tions about the disposal of products at the end of the value chain. For more information on our emissions reporting, see basf.com/corporate_carbon_footprint For more information on Product Carbon Footprints, see basf.com/en/pcfProduct Carbon Footprints In 2020, we developed a digital solution to make our product- specific greenhouse gas emissions more transparent and have since determined the carbon footprints of around 45,000 sales products. These Product Carbon Footprints include all greenhouse gas emissions - from raw materials extraction to the finished product leaving the factory gates. PCFs provide us with important information for assessing the climate impact of our products and guidance for implementing mitigation measures so that our customers can benefit from reduced carbon emissions in the value chain. In 2022, we further expanded our portfolio of products with a certified reduced carbon footprint, including engineering plastics and polyurethanes, intermediates and aroma ingredients. We already offer some of our products, such as the intermediates neopentyl glycol and propionic acid, and the isocyanate MDI, with a net zero carbon footprint. These lower PCFs are mostly made possible by the substitution of fossil raw materials. For instance, we use climate-neutral electricity from renewable sources instead of electricity from fossil fuels to produce low-PCF and zero-PCF products. We also use - in whole or in part - renew- able, waste-based or recycled raw materials such as palm oil, castor oil, biomethane or pyrolysis oil from plastic waste. These alternative resources have a better carbon footprint than fossil raw materials. The alternative resources are allocated to the end product using the mass balance approach. The digital methodology we have developed to calculate PCFs meets general life cycle analysis standards such as ISO 14040, ISO 14044 and ISO 14067, as well as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Product Standard, and has been certified by TUeV Rheinland. We make our automated PCF calculation approach available to interested industry players through partnerships. At the same time, we are involved in various initiatives to drive transparency, harmonization and standardization across the industry. One example is Together for Sustainability. In September 2022, the members of the initiative agreed on a globally uniform guideline for calculating cradle-to-gate PCFs in the chemical industry. This will enable the climate impact of products to be directly compared and evaluated in the future based on a standardized approach. A technical solution for sharing PCF data between companies is under development and should be implemented by the end of 2023. Harmonizing the methodological approaches used to calculate PCFs also makes an important contribution to the more accurate measurement of the greenhouse gas emissions that arise in the BASF Group's greenhouse gas emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocola Million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents BASF operations 2022 20212018 Scope 1b CO 2 15.434 17.234 17.025 N2O 0.306 0.418 0.677 CH 4 0.025 0.032c0.027 HFC 0.031 0.035c0.091 SF6 0.001 0.001 0 Scope 2d CO 2 2.629 2.464 4.067 Total 18.426 20.184c21.887 Offsetting 0 0 0 Total after offsetting 18.426 20.184c21.887 Sale of energy to third parties e CO 2 0.759 0.947 0.773 Total 19.185 21.131c22.660 Use of biomassf CO 2 0.084 0.091 n/a a BASF reports separately on direct and indirect emissions from the purchase of energy. Scope 1 emissions encompass both direct emissions from production and generation of steam and electricity, as well as direct emissions from the generation of steam and electricity for sale. Scope 2 emissions comprise indirect emissions from the purchase of energy for BASF's use. b Emissions of N 2O, CH 4 and HFC have been translated into CO 2 emissions using the Global Warming Potential, or GWP , factor. GWP factors are based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2007, errata table 2012 for the 2018 reporting year, and IPCC 2014 for the 2021 and 2022 reporting years. HFC are calculated using the GWP factors of the individual components. c The comparative figure for 2021 has been adjusted to reflect updated data. d Market-based approach. Under the location-based approach, Scope 2 emissions were 3.670 million metric tons of CO 2 in 2021 and 3.588 million metric tons of CO 2 in 2022. e Includes sales to BASF Group companies; as a result, emissions reported under Scope 2 can be considered twice in some cases. f Emissions are reported separately from Scope 1 and Scope 2 in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 140 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Energy and Climate Protection supply chain, for example, during the extraction of raw materials or the manufacture of precursors. These upstream Scope 3 emissions account for the largest share of our corporate carbon footprint. We currently use industrial averages and values from commercial databases as the basis for calculating upstream Scope 3 emissions. To obtain a more accurate data base and better manage and reduce emissions in the supply chain in the long term, we launched our global Supplier CO 2 Management Program in 2021. In a first step, we have since requested the PCFs of our raw materials and support our suppliers in determining these, for example, by sharing our knowledge of valuation and calculation methods with them. Since the start of the program, we have asked more than 1,300 suppliers, covering around 60% of our raw materials-related greenhouse gas emissions. In a second step, we want to work with our suppliers on solutions to reduce product-related emissions and establish the PCF as a criterion for purchasing decisions. For more information on the Supplier CO 2 Management Program, see basf.com/suppliersGood to know Low-carbon and carbon-free processes for climate-smart chemistry We are also developing completely new technologies for carbon-free and low-carbon production as part of our carbon management. The main focus here is on basic chemicals, which are often still emissions-intensive to produce. One example is steam reforming, the most common way of obtaining hydrogen. We are already testing an alternative process - methane pyrolysis - in Ludwigshafen, Germany. This is virtually carbon-free if renewable energy is used and extremely energy efficient compared with other methods. Together with Siemens Energy, and depending on funding from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action , we are also planning to build a proton exchange membrane water electrolyzer in Ludwigshafen with an output of 54 megawatts for carbon-free hydrogen production. Another example is steam crackers. Steam crackers split petroleum into olefins and aromatics for further processing - both important groups of substances for numerous chemical value chains. The cracking reaction requires high temperatures of around 850 degrees Celsius, which are achieved in conventional plants by burning methane. Heating concepts that use electricity from renewable sources instead could reduce process-related emissions by at least 90% in the future. To test the feasibility of this new process and two different heating concepts, in Septem- ber 2022 we started construction of a demonstration plant at the Ludwigs hafen site in Germany together with our partners SABIC and Linde. The project has been granted EUR 14.8 million from the BMWK under the Decarbonization in Industry funding program. It is scheduled for start-up in 2023. We also want to break new ground in steam supply, which we need for many chemical processes and have so far mainly produced in our central gas-fired power plants. Here, too, green power-based technologies such as heat pumps or electric boilers offer enormous potential. For instance, we want to recover the thermal energy produced by our production and infrastructure facilities in the future and use it for carbon-optimized steam generation. In this context, we initiated a feasibility study with MAN Energy Solutions in July 2022 on the construction of an industrial-scale heat pump at the Ludwigshafen site in Germany. Another focus area is carbon capture and storage. For example, we are part of an industrial CCS project at the Antwerp site in Belgium as the first phase of the Antwerp@C project, which will enable BASF to avoid the emission of up to 1 million metric tons of CO 2 into the atmosphere every year from production. 141 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Emissions to Air, Waste and Remediation At a glance 2.2 million metric tons BASF Group waste47.4% share of our waste recycled or thermally recovered*Improvements based on continuous monitoring of emissions to air and waste streams*Circular concepts an important part of our activities*Systematic management of contaminated sites Strategy and governance The safe and efficient operation of our plants and the responsible management of resources and waste are core elements of our Responsible Care Management system. We have defined our global standards for emissions to air, waste and contaminated sites in Group-wide guidelines, the implementation of which is the responsi- bility of the sites and Group companies. The Environmental Protection, Health, Safety and Quality unit in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits to monitor compliance with legal require- ments and internal guidelines.BASF's global network of experts shares information, insights and best practices on an ongoing basis to further reduce our emissions to air, manage waste and responsibly handle contaminated sites. Continuous documentation and monitoring of emissions to air, waste streams and contaminated sites as well as the imple men- tation of measures for improvement are an integral part of our environmental management. In addition to greenhouse gases , we also measure and analyze other air pollutants to prevent the emission of potentially harmful substances. Our waste management is based on the systematic tracking of our material flows and follows a clear hierarchy: We aim to avoid waste as far as possible, for example, by continuously optimizing our processes or developing new production methods. BASF's Verbund structure with its networked plants and value chains is key here: The by-products of one plant serve as feedstock elsewhere in the BASF Verbund, avoiding waste and enabling us to use raw materials as efficiently as possible. If these cannot be used within BASF's Verbund structures, we assess whether they can be recycled or thermally recovered. We have established processes for the safe, proper and environmentally responsible disposal of materials that we cannot recycle or where recycling is not legally permitted. If we use external waste disposal companies, we conduct regular audits to verify that waste is disposed of properly. In this way, we also contribute to preventive Material topics in focus: Emissions to Air, Waste and Remediation GRI 2, 3, 305, 306 SUPPLIERS BASF CUSTOMERS We want to continuously reduce emissions to air, prevent waste and protect the soil. That is why we are committed to operating our plants safely and efficiently, and to using resources responsibly. We are consistently reducing the environmental impact of our plants and processes with our Operational Excellence Program. In 2022, a new residue incineration line was commissioned in Ludwigshafen, Germany. It makes an important contribution to reliable waste disposal and is also interesting from a technological point of view: An upright, cooled combustion chamber increases the efficiency by 10%. This means that the additional steam fed into the Verbund does not have to be generated by burning natural gas.In Focus: Emissions to Air, Waste and Re- mediation 142 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Emissions to Air, Waste and Remediation soil protection and keep today's waste from becoming tomorrow's contamination. If soil and groundwater contamination occurs at active, acquired or former sites, we review and implement appropriate remediation measures. We are committed to reducing the impact on air and soil and minimizing disposal volumes and material consumption along our value chains. We expect suppliers to comply with internationally recognized environmental standards. This is assessed as part of our supplier management. We support our suppliers in developing and implementing measures for improvement, for example in waste management. We offer our customers a wide range of products that can reduce air pollutants or waste - from industrial process catalysts, fuel additives and catalysts for the automotive sector to additives and track-and-trace technologies to extend the useful life of plastics or improve mechanical recycling of plastic waste. We are increasingly aligning our actions with the circular economy principle. For example, we are increasingly using recycled and waste-based raw materials in our production, recycling operating supplies, and expanding our capacities for recovering precious metals from spent automotive and industrial catalysts. We are also developing product-specific recycling technologies and are involved in cross-industry networks and initiatives to avoid plastic waste and strengthen the circular economy. For more information on the circular economy, see page 43 Emissions to air Total emissions of air pollutants from our production plants amounted to 23,360 metric tons in 2022. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances as defined by the Montreal Protocol totaled 14 metric tons in 2022. Emissions of heavy metals2 in 2022 amounted to 4 metric tons. 1 The comparative figure for 2021 has been adjusted to reflect updated data. 2 Heavy metals are included in the figure for dust.Emissions to air Metric tons Air pollutants from BASF operations 2022 2021 CO 3,833 3,951 NO X 9,326 11,088a NMVOC 4,621 4,817a SO X 1,553 1,908a Dust 2,060 2,154 NH 3 and other inorganic substances 1,965 1,951 Total 23,360 25,869a a The comparative figure for 2021 has been adjusted to reflect updated data. We want to further reduce emissions with various measures. For instance, we use catalysts to reduce nitrogen oxides or feed waste gases back into the production process. Waste BASF generated 2.21 million metric tons of waste in 2022. Of this, 52.6% was disposed of. Hazardous waste accounted for 75.2% of the total disposed waste. Based on the concept of the circular economy, we are continuously examining options for material or thermal recycling for all waste. In this way, we were able to find new uses for 47.4% of our waste in 2022. We continuously identify and evaluate the safest and most environmentally sound disposal routes for non-recyclable waste. In 2022, most of our hazardous waste was incinerated , where possible with energy recovery. 8.0% of hazardous waste was disposed of in landfill. This was mainly contaminated construction waste that cannot be recycled due to legal requirements.Waste generation in the BASF Group Million metric tons Hazardous wasteaNonhazardous wastea 2022 2021 2022 2021 Recycled 0.14 0.14 0.31 0.37 Thermally recovered 0.49 0.52 0.11 0.12c Waste recovered 0.63 0.66 0.42 0.49c Through incineration 0.64 0.73c0.05 0.06c In surface landfills 0.12 0.12 0.22 0.21c Otherb0.12 0.12c0.02 0.02 Waste disposed of 0.87 0.97 0.29 0.29c Total waste generation 1.50 1.63 0.71 0.78c a Waste is classified as hazardous or nonhazardous waste according to local regulations. b Physical/chemical and biological treatment, underground disposal c The comparative figure for 2021 has been adjusted to reflect updated data. Contaminated sites We have binding global standards for managing contaminated sites. A worldwide network of experts ensures these are implemented. We develop remediation measures designed to balance nature conservation, climate protection concerns, costs and social respon- sibility. These solutions take into account the legal framework and current technological standards. Contaminated sites are docu- mented in a database. Ongoing remediation work around the world continued on schedule in 2022 and planning was concluded for further measures. For more information, see Notes 9 and 23 on pages 230 and 266In Focus: Emissions to Air, Waste and Remediation 143 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Water At a glance 1,590 million cubic meters total water abstraction79% of water demand covered by reuse*Responsible use is a core part of our strategy*Sustainable water management introduced at 61.6% of relevant sites*Top rating of A in the annual CDP assessment Strategy and governance The responsible use of water as a resource is a core element of our Responsible Care Management System and our risk management, as well as an important part of our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. This is also reflected in our position paper on water protection, which we published in 2021. Our global standards and requirements for water are defined in Group-wide guidelines. Among other things, these stipulate that water protection concepts must be implemented at all production sites. The guidelines also cover aspects such as process and transportation safety in order to prevent production and transportation-related product spillages into water bodies as far as possible. Our sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing and complying with internal guide- lines and legal requirements. The Environmental Protection, Health, Safety and Quality unit in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits to monitor this. BASF's global network of experts shares information, insights and best practices around the responsible use of water on an ongoing basis. Introducing and implementing sustainable water management has been a cornerstone of our strategy for many years now. Our focus here is on our Verbund sites and on production sites in water stress areas.1 The aim is to protect water as a resource, to use it as efficiently as possible through recirculation, and to continuously reduce wastewater and emissions. We consider the quantitative, qualitative and social aspects of water use. We pursue our goal by applying the European Water Stewardship standard, which rests on four principles: sustainable water abstrac- tion, maintaining good water quality, preserving conservation areas, and ensuring continuous improvement processes. 1 We define water stress areas as regions in which more than 40% of available water is used by industry, households and agriculture. Our definition is based on the Water Risk Atlas published by the World Resources Institute. For more information, see wri.org/aqueduct. Material topics in focus: Water GRI 3, 303, 304 SUPPLIERS BASF CUSTOMERS Water is of fundamental importance in chemical production. It is used as a coolant, solvent and cleaning agent, and to make our products. Waterways are used to transport goods. At the same time, water is a scarce commodity in an increasing number of regions. That is why we promote the responsible use of this resource with sustainable water management. The BASF wastewater treatment plant at the Ludwigshafen site in Germany is one of the largest in Europe. Around 86 million cubic meters of production wastewater are treated here every year, plus around 18 million cubic meters of wastewater from surrounding communities. In recent years, we have continuously increased the energy efficiency and effectiveness of the plant.In Focus: Water 144 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Water We advocate the responsible use of water as a resource along the entire value chain. We audit supplier compliance with envi- ronmental standards in our regular supplier assessments. Where improvement is necessary, we support suppliers in developing and implementing appropriate measures, such as the correct handling of wastewater. In addition, we are involved in a wide range of initiatives to promote sustainability in the supply chain. For example, efficient water use is a core part of the Pragati project to improve sustainability in castor bean farming. We offer our customers solutions that help purify water and use it more efficiently, and minimize pollution. These include high- performance plastics to produce ultrafiltration membranes, interme- diates to produce flocculants for water treatment, or seeds with higher drought and heat tolerance. We work with numerous partners along the value chain and from civil society to protect water as a resource. For instance, BASF is a member of the Alliance for Water Stewardship, a global multi- stakeholder organization that promotes the responsible use of water. In addition, we are involved in networks to effectively prevent plastic waste from entering water bodies. We report transparently and comprehensively on water. For instance, we again provided detailed answers to the 2022 water questionnaire from the nonprofit organization CDP. BASF again achieved Leader - ship status with a top rating of A in the final assessment. CDP evaluates how transparently companies report on their water man- age ment activities and how they reduce risks such as water scarcity. The assessment also considers the extent to which product devel- opments can also contribute to sustainable water management at the customers of the evaluated companies. For more information on our position paper on water protection, see basf.com/water For more information on the CDP water questionnaire, see basf.com/en/cdp 1 Our water target also continues to take into account the sites that we identified as water stress sites in accordance with Pfister et al. prior to 2019.In Focus: Water Global target and measures Our goal is to introduce sustainable water management at our Verbund sites and at all production sites in water stress areas by 2030, covering 89% of BASF's total water abstraction. We achieved 61.6% of our target in 2022.1 Sustainable water management was introduced at seven further sites in 2022. As part of sustainable water management, our sites regularly assess the water situation in the catchment area. This raises awareness of potential risks and impacts for the population such as water scarcity. Based on the assessments conducted until the end of 2022, we did not identify any activities with a significant impact on water availability and quality at any site.2030 target Introduction of sustainable water management at our production sites in water stress areas and at our Verbund sites Another important part of our sustainable water management is the continuous analysis and implementation of measures for improvement. For example, changes in the production process at the Caojing site in China reduce the need for feedstocks, steam and water. This can save 25% of the wastewater from this process step each year. At the Camacari site in Brazil, an improvement in the recirculation of cooling water and the reuse of condensate saves around 49,000 cubic meters of water every year. The team received the Bahia Sustainable Indus- tries Award for its success ful water management. Depending on the Water in the BASF Group 2022 Million cubic meters per year a The difference between water abstraction and discharge is due to water consumption and limited measurement accuracy in water discharge. b Sum of production processes, sanitary facilities, rinsing and cleaning in productionAbstraction / supply Use Discharge ConsumptionPercentage in recirculating cooling systemsSurface water / freshwater 1,260Of which in water stress areas: 1% Groundwater Drinking water Water from raw materialsBrackish w ater / seawater Reusable wastewater from third parties1,590a Water used in cooling processes6,705 Water used in productionb212Of which cooling water: 1,237 Of which wastewater from production:b 1631,400a Of which in water stress areas: 17%69a88% 82% Percentage of water reused9%12%3212 91 19Surface water / freshwater 1,181 Groundwater External treatment plantBrackish w ater / seawater 201 1 17 5 145 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Water local situation, we also implement measures together with other stakeholders. One example is the Lake Winnipeg Basin Water Stewardship Project in the Canadian province of Manitoba, which was launched in 2022. Water balance Our water abstraction totaled 1,590 million cubic meters in 2022. This demand was covered for the most part by fresh- water such as rivers and lakes. At some sites, we use alternative sources such as treated municipal waste- water, brackish water or seawater. A small part of the water we use reaches our sites as part of raw materials and steam, or is released in our production processes. We abstract most of the water we need for cooling and production ourselves. In 2022, 5% of our total water demand was covered by third parties. Water use in 2022 totaled 6,917 million cubic meters. Put in relation to total water abstraction, this means that we use every liter we abstract around four times, or cover 79% of our water demand with reuse. We predominantly use water for cooling purposes , after which we discharge it back to our supply sources with no product contact. We reduce our water abstraction for cooling purposes mainly by using recooling plants. Around 12% of our total water abstraction is used in production plants, for example, for extraction or dissolution processes or for cleaning. Here, too, we reduce our demand for water by recycling wastewater. Most of the water used for production purposes is discharged back to water bodies after being treated in our own or third-party wastewater treatment plants. The BASF Group's water consumption describes the amount of water that is not discharged to a water body, meaning that it is no longer available to other users. Consumption is mainly attributable to the evaporation of water in recirculating cooling systems. A smaller amount is from the water contained in our products. Water consumption in 2022 amounted to around 69 million cubic meters. In 2022, around 25% of our production sites were located in water stress areas. These sites accounted for 1% of BASF's total water abstraction.1 In water stress areas, we mainly source water from third parties and largely cover our demand with freshwater. Water consumption in water stress areas accounted for 17% of BASF's total water consumption in 2022 and was primarily attributable to evaporation in cooling processes. Wastewater in water stress areas accounted for less than 1% of BASF's total wastewater. The share of wastewater from cooling processes in water stress areas is lower than for the BASF Group as a whole. Cooling water is rarely used for once- through cooling here. Instead, it is generally recirculated to reduce water demand. Production wastewater in water stress areas is primarily treated at third-party facilities. The supply, treatment, transportation and recooling of water is associated with a high energy demand. We are constantly working to optimize our energy consumption and the amount of water we use, and to adapt to the needs of our business and the environment. Emissions to water Our wastewater is subject to strict controls and we carefully assess the impact of wastewater discharge in accordance with the applica- ble laws and regulations. Both internal audits and the responsible local authorities regularly assess whether the analyses and safety precautions at our sites comply with internal guidelines and legal requirements. A total of 1,400 million cubic meters of water were discharged from BASF production sites in 2022 , including 163 million cubic meters of wastewater from production. Emissions of nitrogen to water amounted to 2,600 metric tons in 2022. Around 10,600 metric tons of organic sub- stances were emitted in wastewater. Our wastewater 1 Aqueduct 3.0 was used to identify sites in water stress areas to determine pro rata water abstraction and water consumption.In Focus: Water contained 16 metric tons of heavy metals. Phosphorus emissions amounted to 240 metric tons. Our approach is to reduce wastewater volumes and contaminant loads at the source in our production processes and to reuse waste- water and material flows internally as far as possible. To treat waste- water, we use both central measures in wastewater treatment plants and the selective pretreatment of individual wastewater streams before these are sent to the wastewater treatment plant. We use different methods depending on the type and degree of contamina- tion - including biological processes, chemical oxidation, membrane technologies, precipitation or adsorption. In order to avoid unantici- pated emissions and the pollution of surface water or groundwater, we have water protection concepts for our production plants in place. This is mandatory for all production plants as part of our Respon sible Care Management System. The waste- water protection plans involve evaluating wastewater in terms of risk and drawing up suitable monitoring approaches. We use audits to check that these measures are being implemented and complied with. For more information, see basf.com/water 146 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Biodiversity At a glance*Strategic alignment of our biodiversity measures based on impact assessments*Commitment to preserving biodiversity along the entire value chain, for example, with strategic partnerships Strategy Our specific measures along the entire value chain help to preserve biodiversity and meet our responsibility to the environment and society. Our corporate sustainability goals on climate protection, the circular economy, water management and responsible procurement also help to protect biodiversity. The United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the Sustainable Development Goals. including Life below water and Life on land. serve as important orientation and reference frameworks for BASF. We align our biodiversity measures with the impact of our business activities along the value chain. Our focus here is on three areas: sites and production, product impact and supply chains. The five drivers of biodiversity loss defined by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services are land-use change, climate change, pollution, overexploitation and invasive species. We counteract climate change - and in this way, help to preserve biodiversity - with our climate protection measures. We are committed to combating habitat loss, over - exploitation and environmental pollution with activities along various value chains, including palm and palm kernel oil. To be able to take the right measures, we need to understand how our actions affect the biodiversity of the affected ecosystems. Measuring biodiversity is a challenge, as a global indicator - like greenhouse gas emissions for climate change - does not yet exist. This is because the local context also has to be taken into account when assessing impact. We use various methods to measure our sustainability perfor - mance that implicitly and explicitly consider relevant risks and opportunities for biodiversity. These include the Eco-Efficiency Analysis, SEEbalance, Sustainable Solution Steering as well as AgBalance with its biodiversity calculator. We use indicators such as nitrogen emissions to water to measure drivers of biodiversity loss, and indicators such as species occurrence to assess the status of ecosystems. In addition, we regularly test various analysis tools available on the market. Newly developed assessment meth- ods help us to understand further influences on biodiversity. On the basis of this understanding, we seek dialog with partners and enter into strategic partnerships, through which we drive forward measures to protect biodiversity around the world. Material topics in focus: Biodiversity GRI 3, 304 SUPPLIERS BASF CUSTOMERS Biodiversity describes the variety of life forms on Earth. The loss of this diversity weakens ecosystems ability to withstand changes such as climate change and poses a global challenge. As a chemical company, we depend on ecosystem services like the availability of renewable resources and high air, water and soil quality, while also influencing them. Protecting biodiversity is a key element of our commitment to sustainability. BASF is committed to preserving biodiversity at different sites. At the former Rensselaer manufacturing site in upstate New York, for example, a biodiversity project is improving ecological conditions and providing space for indigenous plants such as the oxeye sunflower, as well as foraging and nesting areas for a variety of animals.In Focus: Biodiversity 147 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Biodiversity An internal working group addresses company-wide governance and the systematic identification of risks and opportunities arising from biodiversity. Responsibility to our sites and production Preservation of biodiversity is taken into consideration in the management of our sites. We strive to operate our facilities in a responsible manner and minimize negative effects on the environment by keeping air, water and soil emissions as low as possible and reducing and avoiding waste. Conservation areas play a valuable role in preserving biodiversity and natural habitats. In 2021, we added an indicator to our environmental database: proximity of production site to internationally recognized protected areas. We use databases such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool here. This allows us to raise awareness of biodiversity at local level and assess and, if necessary, reduce potential impacts of our sites on these areas. In 2022, 5% of our production sites were adjacent to a Ramsar site1 and 1% were adjacent to a category I, II or III protected area as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.2 None of our production sites were adjacent to a UNESCO protected area. We have adopted biodiversity as a criterion in processes such as our risk management. In addition, we systematically consider sustainability aspects when deciding whether to invest in the construction of new sites or expand existing ones. Aspects assessed include the potential impacts on forests and biodiversity. We are also implementing local measures to protect biodiversity at a number of sites. For example, at 13 sites in North America, biodiversity projects are regularly audited and certified by the NGO Wildlife Habitat Council. At the former Rensselaer production site in New York state, for example, BASF has been investing in sustainable land use for over 10 years. The 90-hectare site on the Hudson River includes a LEED Platinum-certified environmental education classroom, a combined heat and power plant and a 10-hectare widlife habitat. The wildlife habitat was created as part of the Hudson River legacy remediation and ecological restoration project, for which BASF received the Environmental Excellence Award for Environmental Dredging from Western Dredging Association in 2021. The biodiversity project improves site ecology, providing space for indigenous plants, foraging and nesting areas for a variety of animals, a way-station for migratory birds, and a habitat for aquatic species, amphibians and reptiles. For example, the aquatic turtle population in the freshwater wetland area could be restored. We also take biodiversity conservation into account in our production. In addition, we are committed to complying with the provisions of international environmental agreements such as the Nagoya Protocol. The supplementary agreement to the U.N.'s Convention on Biological Diversity regulates access to genetic resources and benefit sharing. It sets out obligations for the users of genetic resources such as plant-based raw materials. We use internal control mechanisms to monitor compliance with these standards.Good to know Biodiversity reserve in Brazil BASF has been involved in the conservation and regeneration of the forests of the Atlantic Rainforest for more than 30 years. An eight-month biodiversity survey in collaboration with the Brazilian Espaco ECO Foundation found a diversity of more than 200 animal and plant species in the 30-hectare Suvinil Reserve on the Brazilian paints and coatings industrial complex in Sao Bernardo do Campo. This section of the Atlantic Rainforest, which accounts for almost half of the total area of the BASF site, shows how industry and the environment, productivity and sustainability can coexist. The Suvinil reserve is part of the Brazilian BASF Demarchi Ecoefficient program, which achieves more efficient use of natural resources and improves products and processes. 1 Wetland of international importance in accordance with the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat 2 We have defined adjacent as the area within a 3 km radius.In Focus: Biodiversity 148 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Biodiversity Management of our product impact BASF offers products and solutions for a wide range of industries. We want to ensure that our products meet our customers standards in quality and, through appropriate use, pose no risk to humans, animals or the environment. Our commitment to the objectives set forth by the Responsible Care charter of the International Council of Chemical Associations obligates us to continuously minimize the negative effects of our products on the environment, health and safety and to optimize our products on an ongoing basis. It is important to consider the potential impacts of product use on biodiversity, for example, with regard to pollution. For example, we evaluate our products and solutions in crop protection and seeds throughout the entire research, development and registration process. After they have been approved for the market, we continue assessing them regularly for potential risks and impact to the ecosystems in which they are used. We have initiated various projects and offer training to prevent misuse of our products. All types of land development, such as agriculture and forestry, play a role in changing biodiversity. Activities such as tillage, drainage, fertilization and the use of crop protection products can affect flora and fauna, for example, by influencing food sources. Minimizing these impacts while ensuring the necessary productivity is one of the biggest challenges farmers are facing. Our Agricultural Solutions segment focuses on four areas to help farmers to find the right balance between productivity and sustainability. Focus areas are climate-smart farming, sustainable solutions, digital farming and smart stewardship. In this context, we work with farmers to create balanced agricultural systems which enable productive and efficient farming of high- quality food products and at the same time promote bio di ver- sity in the field. For example, we advise them on soil cultivation practices and look for suitable ways to improve biodiversity in farm- lands. Our many years of experience in sustainability measurement and evaluation in agriculture are particularly useful here. Our modern seed solutions also enable better yield on existing farmlands and thus help protect natural habitats. Our AgBalance method and the biodiversity calculator enable a scientifically sound assessment of the impact of agricultural practices on biodiversity. Based on these assessments, we issue recommendations for measures such as planting flower strips or establishing nesting places to benefit pollinators like wild bees and farmland birds. In 2021, BASF initiated the approval process for a new, more environmentally friendly insecticidal active ingredient and has since submitted registration dossiers in all major markets. The active ingredient, AxalionTM, enables farmers to control a wide range of piercing and sucking pests that are harmful to crops. At the same time, it is highly compatible with beneficial insects such as pollinators. This supports farmers in managing the challenges they face around productivity, protecting the environment and societal demands. Animal farming is essential to meeting growing global demand for products of animal origin such as meat, eggs and milk. This in turn leads to high demand for agricultural land for growing feed, which has implications for the share of forest areas and biodiversity. BASF offers a range of feed additives such as enzymes, vitamins, glycinates and organic acids that improve nutrient utilization from feed. Better feed conversion and more sustainable livestock production mean that less land is needed, preserving natural ecosystems. Responsibility to our supply chains Some of the business activities of our raw materials suppliers involve land uses that can influence biodiversity. We have laid down our expectations of our suppliers with regard to environmental, labor and social standards in the supply chain as well as our committment to preserving biodiver - sity in the Supplier Code of Conduct.BASF procures various renewable raw materials. As for fossil raw materials, we also consider how renewable resources impact aspects of sustainability along the value chain. Alongside positive effects like avoiding greenhouse gas emissions, these can also have negative effects on areas such as biodiversity or land use, depending on the raw material. For palm and palm kernel oil in particular, there is an elevated risk of deforestation to create farmland. To improve sustainability in procurement, we established the BASF Palm Commitment in 2011, which was updated in 2015 and is implemented with our Palm Sourcing Policy. Third-party certification with standards such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil standard enables us to take biodiversity criteria into account when purchasing raw materials. Our position on forest protection sets out our commitment to preserving biodiversity in areas of High Conservation Value such as High Carbon Stock forest areas and peatlands in the procurement of renewable raw materials. BASF again participated in the Forests assessment conducted by the international organization CDP in 2022 and achieved a score of A- once more giving it Leadership status. The assessment is conducted based on detailed insights into the palm value chain and activities that impact ecosystems and natural habitats. We are also committed to the environmental sustainability of other supply chains through our own, targeted initiatives. One example is our rambutan program. This was launched in 2014 in close collaboration with partners in Vietnam to source botanical ingredients for cosmetic products from certified organic rambutan gardens. In cooperation with local farmers and NGOs, BASF's program promotes the preservation of biodiverse habitats, as well as good agricultural practices, gender equity and fair working conditions. For more information on the CDP forests questionnaire, see basf.com/en/cdpIn Focus: Biodiversity 149 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - In Focus: Biodiversity Strategic partnerships to promote biodiversity Engaging in ongoing dialog with a variety of stakeholders is important to BASF. That is why we seek out partnerships with relevant interest groups and organizations worldwide to raise awareness of bio- diversity and drive forward the action needed to preserve natural habitats. This enables us to firstly share the knowledge gained from our biodiversity activities and secondly learn from others to improve our own practices. We cooperate with a number of organizations including the Round- table on Sustainable Palm Oil, the Sustainable Palm Oil Forum, the Brazilian Coalition on Climate, Forests and Agriculture and the High Carbon Stock Approach Steering Group. The Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures is working to provide a framework for reporting on nature-related risks and related activities. In 2021, BASF joined the newly established TNFD Forum, a consultative network, to support this development. Our involvement in organizations such as the Alliance to End Plastic Waste and the Alliance for Water Stewardship help to preserve biodiversity in bodies of water. Together with international partners and based on dialog with stakeholders in the food value chain, we are driving forward measures to promote sustainable agriculture. In the United States, for example, BASF is a member of the Honey Bee Health Coalition, which aims to achieve healthy honey bee populations and support healthy populations of native and managed pollinators in productive agricultural systems and thriving ecosystems. BASF France is part of the Entreprises pour lEnvironnement network, which launched the Act4nature campaign with the main objective of protecting and enhancing biodiversity. Since 2013, we have also been working with different farmers and experts from the BASF FarmNetwork Sustainability, an association of farms in Europe, to integrate more connected biodiversity areas into agricultural production. By creating and maintaining new habitats and linking habitats for living, breeding and feeding with each other, biodiversity can be sustainably promoted in a modern, conventional agriculture. Based on the insights gained from working together, an advisory board of experts from agriculture, nature conservation and environmental protection developed a biodiversity checklist and published it in 2021. This summarizes 10 ecologically effective measures to promote biodiversity. Since 2021, BASF has supported farmers participating in its wirzahlenBiodiversitaet program financially and with professional advice. For more information on our responsible management of resources, see page 43 For more information on product stewardship, see pages 130 and 132 For more information on our commitment to biodiversity, see basf.com/biodiversity For more information on our position on forest protection, see basf.com/forestprotection 150 BASF Report 2022 Management's Report - Economic Environment in 2023 At a glance*Stagnation expected in Europe and the United States*Moderately higher growth in Asia*Fragile recovery in the automotive industry*Moderate growth in the industry as a whole*Weak growth in global chemical production*Further decline in European chemical production In the European Union, gross domestic product is expected to stagnate on the back of high energy costs. High regional natural gas prices will continue to weigh heavily on production in energy- intensive industries. Consequently, we anticipate a significant decrease in chemical production in the E.U. at a similar rate to 2022. In North America, too, we expect gross domestic product to stag- nate and chemical production to decline slightly. For China, we are forecasting slightly higher GDP growth compared with the previous year, while growth in other emerging Asian economies will proba bly weaken. Growth in chemical production in the Asian region as a whole is likely to remain stable overall. Uncertainty about future developments remains exceptionally high. The future development of the war in Ukraine and its impact on economic growth is virtually impossible to predict. Our forecast assumes that the conflict does not escalate further. We are assum- ing that an acute gas shortage with regulatory cuts in natural gas supply to energy-intensive industries in Europe can be avoided. Moreover, we do not expect China's departure from its zero-COVID strategy to have any adverse effects that would significantly reduce China's growth or that of its trading partners. Trends in the global economy in 2023 We expect GDP to stagnate in the European Union. The support measures taken by many E.U. countries to mitigate the impact of the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices on households and small and medium-sized enter - prises will help to prevent a stronger decline. The E.U. countries with a comparatively high industrial share of value added and a high share of natural gas in energy supply are likely to suffer further losses. As a result, we expect gross domestic product to decrease by 0.7% in Germany and by 0.4% in Italy. French GDP will presum- ably stagnate. The only major E.U. country expected to see slight growth is Spain. Average GDP in the Eastern E.U. countries will probably stagnate. In the United Kingdom, we expect GDP to decline by 1.2% due to sharp increases in the cost of living and interest rates, which will depress private consumption and investment. GDP in the United States is expected to stagnate in 2023. U.S. monetary policy is steering a restrictive course in order to further reduce the high inflation rate, which is already declining slightly. High interest rates are slowing construction activity, credit- financed purchases of durable goods and capital expenditures. Offsetting factors include good labor market data and government growth stimulus under the infrastructure program and the Infla tion Reduc- tion Act. Low gas prices by international standards will also improve the inter na tional competitiveness of energy- intensive indus tries in the United States. In the emerging markets of Asia, we expect growth to be slightly higher overall than in 2022. This is solely due to higher expected growth in China. For the other emerging markets in Asia, we expect growth to decline overall from 5.5% in 2022 to 4.3% in 2023. In Economic Environment in 20231 1 Our assumptions account for current estimates by external institutions, including economic research institutes, banks, multinational organizations and consulting firms.Forecast We expect the global economy to grow only weakly by 1.6% in 2023. High raw materials costs, rising consumer prices and higher interest rates will depress demand worldwide. We are also assuming that the positive post- pandemic effects have already run their course. We expect growth of only 1.8% for global industrial production and 2.0% for global chemical production. Uncertainty about future developments remains high. In this section: Economic Environment in 2023 Outlook 2023 Opportunities and RisksEconomic Environment in 2023 151 168 Sustainable Value Enhancement Group Management Report Decarbonization The decarbonization of the Group and in particular it s portfolio of products is a major part of the NEW AUTO Group strategy, where it has been defined as one of the focus areas in the base initiative. We have established the decarbonization index as a key performance indicator: the decarbonization index measures the emissions of CO 2 and CO 2 equivalents by the brands that produce passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in the re gions of Europe , China and the USA over the entire life cycle. In this index, the use phase is calculated over 200,000 km and with reference to region-specific fl eet values without statutory flexibilities. The CO 2e intensity of the charging current of the electric vehicl es is also calculated based on region-specific elec- tricity mixes. Our vehicle life cycle assessments, whic h are used as the data basis for calculating supply chain and recycling emissions, have been verified ex ternally and independently in accordance with ISO 14040. The DKI gives us an informative measuring tool that makes our progress and interim results public and verifiable. The DKI calculation methodology is re gularly adapted according to internal and external requirements, such as new test cycles for fleet emissions. Published DKI values can therefore also be adjusted to the new methodology and thus changed to fa cilitate the presentation of a time series that is methodologically consistent. In 2021, the methodology was adjusted to the WLTP test cycle for fleet emis-sions. By 2030, the DKI is to be reduced by 30% compar ed with the base year 2018, and emissions offsetting will not be included in the figure. In the reporting year, the DKI value averaged 48.0 t CO 2e/vehicle. This represents a reduction of 0.4 t CO 2e/vehicle compared with the figure adjusted for 2021 due to a change in the assumption on which the calculation is based, for example the first-time inclusion of region-specific life cycle assessments for Chinese models. Circular economy The finite nature of natural resources and the soci al and environmental consequences of mining raw materials make decoupling economic growth from resource consumption and the development of a circular economy key sustainability topics. Policymake rs at both international and national level have addressed these challenges and made it their mission to regulate markets more aggressively in the future in an effort to speed up the transformation towards resource efficiency and a circular economy. Recognizing the importance of the topic, Volkswagen anchored the topic of circular economy in the NEW AUTO Group strategy through its ESG, Decarbonization and Integrity base initiative. The Volkswagen Group created and implemented concepts for the reconditioning and recycling of vehicle components from an early stage. Going forward, we plan to intensify our efforts for a transition to a loop-oriented and resource-conserving approach to doing business by pooling expertise within the Group and working on projects and measures on a cross-brand basis. We are stepping up efforts to use recyclable materials in our vehicle projects. These currently include raw materials from production residues as well as renewable raw materials or natural fibers such as flax, cotton, wood and cellulose, provided they comply with all the technical requirements. In the future, the use of raw materials from end-of-life vehicles will be increasingly taken into account and simplified. To preserve circular materials from electric ve hicles, Volkswagen Group Components opened the Group's first pilot facility for recycling high-voltage ve hicle batteries at the Salzgitter site in early 2021. The objective is industrialized recovery of valuable raw materials such as lithium, nickel, manganese and cobalt. More information on the focus areas can be found in the sections on integrity and compliance, procurement and employees, as well as in ou r Sustainability Report for fiscal year 2022. 169 Sustainable Value Enhancement Parameters and guiding principles Our actions are determined by the Volkswagen Group E ssentials as the foundation of values and the basis for our shared corporate culture. The Volkswagen Gr oup Essentials support managers and employees in overcoming legal and ethical challenges that arise in their daily work. At the same time, we are guided in our activities by several internal guidelines on sustainability. O n t h i s b a s i s , w e s e e k t o a l i g n t h e V o l k s w a g e n Group's actions with international agreements and frameworks such as the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations , the declarations of the International Labour Organization , the principles and conventions of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the UN covenants on basic rights and freedoms. UN Global Compact Since 2021, after a five-year hiatus, the Volkswagen Grou p has officially been reinstated as a participant of the UN Global Compact , the world's largest corp orate sustainability initiative, and participates in national and international initiatives together with Audi, Porsche, TRATON, MAN Truck & Bus and Scania. Investors and asset managers in the capital markets view membership of the UNGC as an important factor w h e n d e c i d i n g t o i n v e s t i n s h a r e s a n d b o n d s o f V o l k s w a g e n A G. E S G f u n d s h a v e b e c o m e v e r y p o p u l a r i n recent years and indispensable for stakeholders. Management and coordination The Volkswagen Group has established a Group-wide sustainability management. The related structures, processes and responsibilities are codified in a specific Group policy. We view sustainability management as a continuous improvement process. The core elemen ts include assumption of cross-functional overall responsibility for sustainability by the Chair of the Board of Management of Volkswagen AG, specification of the competence of the responsible Board members fo r specific sustainability management concepts and implementation of the Group Sustainability Steerin g Committee as a top management committee. The members of this steering committee include managers from central Board of Management business areas and Group divisions as well as representatives from the brands and the Group Works Council. The steering committee defines concrete strategic goals and programs, establishes measures for uniform further devel-opment of sustainability manageme nt across divisions, brands and regions and decides on fundamental sustainability issues. The office of the Group Sustaina bility Steering Committee is the responsibility of the Group's Sustainability function. Strategic stakeholder management Our stakeholders are individuals, groups, or organizati ons who have an influence on or are influenced by the course or the result of corporate decisions. Ou r customers and employees are at the center of our stakeholder network. Based on continuous stakeholder analysis, we have also identified eight more stake- holder groups. The Group's supervisory and advisory b odies - i.e. the Supervisory Board, the Works Council and the Sustainability Council - act as interfaces between internal and external stakeholder groups. We understand stakeholder management as systemat ic interaction with key interest and stakeholder g r o u p s i n l i n e w i t h o u r N E W AUTO Group strategy. Our goal is an open, constructive and also critical exchange with the stakeholder groups shown in the fo llowing chart. We aim to actively shape and promote implementation of their requirements and expect ations, as well as central strategic issues. Group Management Report 170 Sustainable Value Enhancement Group Management Report To be able to continuously incorporate our stakehol ders suggestions and recommendations, we have given our stakeholder management an organizational structur e that also includes external committees. At Group level, this is the Sustainability Coun cil. In addition, we offer our stakeholders a broad range of opportunities for interaction including regular discussion panels an d surveys. Following the pandemic-related interrup- tion, we were able to resume the exchange in the reporting period. Sustainability Council The Sustainability Council provides assistance to th e Volkswagen Group with important, strategic sustain- ability issues and is made up of internationally reno wned experts from the academic world, politics and society. This advisory body establishes its own working methods and areas of focus independently, has far- reaching rights for the purposes of exchanging in formation, consultation and initiating action, and consults regularly with the Boar d of Management, top management and the employee representatives. Dialogue between Volkswagen and the Sustainabili ty Council in 2022 focuse d specifically on the Liefer- kettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz , the use of digital technologies for sustainable development, the Zero Impact Factory co ncept, promotion of transformation and training, Volkswagen's further decarbonization, and the future alignment of mobility solutions with the NEW AUTO Group strategy. The Sustainability Council also discu ssed the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on the Group. Furthermore, the projects launched by the Council to examine the importance of digitalization for sustainability, the transformative potential of empl oyment and training and the inclusivity and effect- tiveness of climate legislation in the transport sector were completed in the reporting period. Further links to the letters of recommendation to the Group Board of Management and th e results of the Council projects are provided on the Sustainability Council internet page. 171 Sustainable Value Enhancement Corporate citizenship As a good corporate citizen, we aim to be a source of economic impetus for local structural development and equal opportunities. We have always believed in the importance of recognizing our social respon- sibilities toward our stakeholders. The main focus of our corporate social engagement activities is on sup- porting future, environmental, educational and community projects at many of our sites across the world. In 2022, the brands and companies supported ar ound 800 projects and initiatives worldwide. Environmental Strategy As one of the largest automobile manufacturers, Vo lkswagen takes responsibility for the environmental impact of its activities. Based on the NEW AUTO Group strategy, we have put greater focus on our ambitious environmental targets. With our en vironmental mission statement goTOzero, we aspire to reduce environ- mental impact along the entire life cycle - from raw ma terial extraction until end-of-life - for all our products and mobility solutions in order to keep ecosystems intact. Compliance with environmental regulations, standards and voluntary commitments is a basic prerequisite of our actions. Our focus is on four prioritized action areas: Climate action. We are committed to the Paris Clim ate Agreement and align our activities with the 1.5 degree goal. We consistently focus on the electrif ication of our products, decarbonization of our entire value chain and expansion of renewable energy generati on to supply our sites and customers. We intend to be a net-carbon-neutral company by 2050 at the latest. Conservation of resources. We reduce the volumes of primary raw materials needed by using recycled material and renewable raw materials. We maximize our energy and resource efficiency and establish loops for materials and water. Together with our business partners we cut down on the amount of natural resources utilized throughout our supply chain. Conservation of ecosystems. We reduce harmful emissions in air, soil and water. We mitigate the impact of our business operations on biodiversity and ecosystems and support projects to conserve these. Environmental compliance. Where inte grity and compliance ar e concerned, we aim to be a role model for a modern, transparent, successful en terprise. With this in mind, we use environmental compliance man- agement systems to identify and manage environmenta l risks and opportunities throughout the lifetime of our mobility solutions. We conduct open dialog with our stakeholders and incorporate their expecta- tions into our decisions.Group Management Report 172 Sustainable Value Enhancement Group Management Report Organization of environmental protection Volkswagen has created an environmental policy that sets out guidelines for environmental decision- making, for the management of projects and for the Group's environmental stewardship. Thus, parameters are set for the conduct and working methods of management and staff in five areas: management behavior, compliance, environmental protection, collaboration with stakeholders and continuous improvement. The Board of Management of Volkswagen AG is the highest internal decision-making body for environ- mental issues. Both it and the brands boards of mana gement take not only business, but also social and environmental criteria into accoun t when making key company decision s. The Group-wide management of environmental protection is the responsibility of the Group Steering Committee for the Environment and Energy. Other bodies take responsibility for steering key individual aspects. They include the Group CO2 Steering Committee, the Group Steering Committee for Fleet Compliance and Exhaust Gas, and the Group Sustainability Steering Committee. The Volkswagen Group coordinates the activities of th e brands, which in turn steer the measures in the regions. The brands and companies are responsible fo r their own environmental organization. They base their own environmental protection activities on the ta rgets, guidelines and principles that apply through- out the Group. Our declared aim is to compl y with legal and regulatory requirements. Furthermore, w e are guided by Company standards and targets. The intention of ou r environmental compliance management systems is to ensure that environmental aspects and obligations are given appropriate consideration in our business operations. Disregard for the rules is treated as a seve re compliance violation, as are fraud and deliberate misconduct. Compliance with our Environmental Policy Statement and with other Group environmental requirements is evaluated annually and reported to the Board of Management of Volkswagen AG, and the respective brand boards of management or the managing directors of the companies. CSR-PROJECTS https:/ /www.volkswagenag.com/en/sustainability/strategy-policy-engagement/engagement/cc-projects.html 173 Sustainable Value Enhancement Group Management Report HOLISTIC INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Integrity and compliance are major priorities in the Volkswagen Group. We firmly believe that, for long- term commercial success, it is important that each and every individual complies with laws, regulations and commitments. Compliant behavior must be a matter of course for all Group employees. This is why integrity and compliance remain key elements of ou r Group's NEW AUTO strategy and a focus topic in matters of sustainability. Our objective is to be a role model and deepen the trust of our employees, customers, shareholders and partners in our Company. Our regulations, processes an d corporate culture are designed in such a way that all employees can act with integrity and comply with the rules at all times. At the same time, we have embedded integrity in our decision-making processes. For example, every resolution proposal submitted to the Board of Management must demonstrate that the intended decision is in line with integrity and compliance, what risks may be associated with it, and how the risks can be reduced. Similar requirements apply to Group brands and companies and to Group bodies to which the Board of Management has delegated decision-making powers. As performance indicators, integrity and compliance must have the same strategic and operational priority in our Company as sales revenue, profit, product quality and employer attractiveness. We have been building a holistic integrity and compliance ma nagement system since 2018. This system was set up in line with the five internationally recogniz ed ECI principles: strategy, risk management, a culture of integrity, a speak-up environment and resolute accountability. We employ our Together4Integrity program as a means of making integrity and compliance a mainstay throughout the Group. This program brings the vast majority of the Group's integrity and com- pliance activities together under one roof, applying un iform, robust process and implementation standards. Thus, we are not only establishing a worldwide ICMS for all Group and brand companies, we are also advancing one of the most extensive change and cultural programs in the history of the Volkswagen Group. T4I: eleven key initiatives T h e r o l l o u t o f T 4 I i s a l m o s t c o m p l e t e , w i t h f u l l i m p l e m e n t a t i o n s c h e d u l e d f o r 2 0 2 5. T h e G r o u p i s o v e r - seeing the program planning and also the rollout of T4I. The managing directors of the individual com- panies are responsible for implementing the program at a local level. The packages of measures may differ depending on local circumstances. The implementation time will also vary. The packages of measures are divided into eleven key initiatives: