12 CUTTiNGEMiSSiONS. Covestro Annual Report 2022 By 2035, we want to achieve net zero emissions for scope 1 and scope 2. How can this work and where do we save emissions? Climate neutrality by 2035 - no easy task for a global chemical company. In concrete terms, what are the levers that need to be adjusted? ake nitrous oxide, for example: this greenhouse gas is around 300 times more harmful to the climate than carbon dioxide. By increasing the use of highly efficient, inno­ vative catalysts, Covestro is reducing emissions caused by nitrous oxide in its production processes. The catalysts are already being used at our sites in Shanghai, China, and Baytown, thus helping us take a significant leap on our path to climate neutrality and a circular economy.Climate neutral for scope 1 and scope 2 by 2035 - that's ambitious! But what does it mean? Scope 1 describes the emissions from our own production, and scope 2 the emissions from procurement and consumption of external energy. These emissions are to be reduced by 60 percent down to 2.2 metric tons of CO2 equivalent by 2030 - a major task that is not easy, but it is possible. With this ambitious target, we are one of the pioneers and accelerators towards climate neutrality in the industry. Thats how we reduced emissions in Baytown. Demetri Zervoudis, Senior Vice President and Head of Performance Materials Operations of Covestro in North America climate neutral by 2035 Renewable electricity Renewable steamMore sustainable manufacturing 13 CUTTiNGEMiSSiONS Covestro Annual Report 2022 AHEADCovestro's production sites are being converted to green electricity, and Covestro is concluding supply agreements to this end. For example, onshore wind energy already covers 45 percent of the demand at the Antwerp, Belgium, production site, and 10 percent of Covestro Shanghai's electrical energy needs have so far come from solar parks. From 2023 on, the share of renewable energy to cover electricity demand in Shanghai will rise to around 30 percent. Starting in 2025, 10 percent of the electrical energy of the German sites will come from Ørsted offshore wind farms. Steam is an important source of energy in chemical production processes. Covestro plans to switch to renewable energy for steam generation. Heat pumps are a key technology in this endeavor: they enable the use of waste heat generated during production to produce steam. This steam can then be put to good use again. ogether with Chempark operator Currenta, we are working on concrete solutions for heat recovery in Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. We want to make it as easy as possible for our customers to opt for sustainability, which is why we are continuously expanding our portfolio of climate-neutral production. In 2022, we reached major milestones on this path - for example with variants of the plastic polycarbonate and the rigid-foam raw material methylene diphenyl diisocyanate that are climate-neutral1 from the cradle to the factory gate. At the beginning of the manufacturing process at suppliers, vegetable residues are added and mathematically assigned to the products by means of a certified mass-balance approach. In some cases, renewable electricity is also used. As a result, no CO2 emissions are generated on balance within this part of the value creation cycle. We can use heat pumps to take waste heat from our processes and reuse it in production. This helps us reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Maria Carrascosa Mas, Circular Economy Coordinator for , Germany, of CovestroRENEWABLE 30 % of the energy demand of Covestro 's largest site in Shanghai is met with power from wind and solar since 2023. 1 Carbon neutrality is the result of an internal assessment of a partial product life cycle from raw material extraction to the factory gate , also known as cradle-to-gate assessment. The methodology of our , for which an external audit and certification will soon be available, is based on the 14040 and 14044 standards. The calculation takes into account biogenic carbon sequestration based on preliminary data from the supply chain. No compensation measures were applied.