The Company's purpose is to pioneer sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world. The Company designs, manufactures and delivers aerospace products, services and solutions to customers on a worldwide scale helping to create value and drive growth. The Company is deeply aware of its responsibility to society and future generations, and contributes to a number of UN Sustainable Development Goals through its core business and how it operates. The Company strives to respect the planet. It aspires to lead the journey towards clean aerospace. The Company pioneers advanced and disruptive technologies while delivering and continuously improving its fuel-efficient products. From exploring new aircraft and propulsion technologies and alternatives to fossil fuels to testing new prototype aircraft powered by hydrogen, the Company is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its products. It is also committed to taking environmental responsibility and, for example, to actively reducing emissions through its value chain, cutting on-site waste and increasing the recycling of aircraft at the end of their service life. The Company's products and services, such as its Earth-observation technologies, allow it to play an active role in tackling climate change, providing insights that help make the planet more resilient. The Company is committed to valuing people. Its business is built on a foundation of safety, quality, integrity and compliance, with the highest standards ensured from design to operation. The Company supports the balance of powers and is uniquely- positioned to strengthen global resilience through its products and services. The Company's technology allows its customers to protect lives during a conflict and prevent crises before they escalate. The Company's products help to protect citizens, defend sovereignty and advance global security, mindful that there can be no sustainability without security. The Company enables prosperity. Its products help to unite cultures, connect economies, and enable global cooperation and partnership. The Company brings together people and organizations across the globe, physically with its commercial aircraft and helicopters, and virtually with its satellites and connectivity solutions. It mobilizes the collective positive impact of its workforce, products and services to tackle societal challenges in partnership with local communities. In addition, the Company works collaboratively to maximize its positive impact, playing an active advocacy role, educating the aerospace industry and partnering with other businesses and public sector organizations to develop technology and solutions that will allow the industry to transition towards a sustainable economy. It is committed to being an economically resilient business that has the financial strength to invest in a more sustainable future. The Company believes that a sustainable tomorrow needs the strongest foundations today. In line with its purpose, the progress in its sustainability journey, and the evolution of reporting frameworks, the Company has further evolved its non-financial reporting in 2022, providing additional transparency and striving to better demonstrate its level of commitment and performance, as presented in the following pages. The Company's contribution to a more prosperous and sustainable society goes beyond what it offers directly through its products and services. For example, as one of the most important players in the aviation industry, the Company contributes significantly to SDG 8 - Decent Work and Economic Growth - as highlighted through the 2020 Benefits Beyond Borders - global fact sheet, available on the Air Transport Action Group website: As a major European defense manufacturer, the Company also has significant economic impact across Europe. According to the AeroSpace and Defense Industries Association of Europe, the industry supports over 879,000 jobs across the continent, all contributing to Europe's economic prosperity with EUR 238 billion in annual revenue in 2021, EUR 138 billion of which comes from exports. While the Company contributes to the global economy as a whole, it also contributes to the economic development of the communities where it operates. Full aerospace ecosystems - bringing together academia, research centers and corporations, all with high value-added jobs - often develop around the Company's sites such as those in Toulouse or Hamburg. This development is accelerated thanks to the Company's innovation ecosystem such as Airbus Scale: an innovation unit that combines corporate innovation, start-up engagement and company-building activities. Airbus Scale identifies and promotes internal corporate innovation opportunities that can be developed into solutions for the external world, bringing them to market and attracting external investments that could result in spin-offs. This generates value not only for the Company but also for the local communities where these new companies will set up, operate and prosper. Furthermore, the Company understands that contributing to a sustainable society is achieved not just through what it does but also how it does it, striving to minimize negative impacts and maximize the positive ones. In order to give direction and focus, in 2020 the Company updated its sustainability strategic framework around the four sustainability priority commitments listed below that apply across its entire value chain. These commitments are in close connection with the UN SDGs and contribute more specifically to eight of them. Across each commitment the Company has set key performance indicators and targets enabling the Company to monitor progress towards these ambitions. These can be found in - 1.2.17 ESG Data Board, which gathers all reported sustainability metrics. They can also be found in the related sections of this chapter, which is structured around each of the four commitments, completed by two sections which cut across all four commitments, 1.2.15 Responsible Supply Chain and - 1.2.16 Community Impact. Complementing the climate change section, EU Taxonomy regulatory information is disclosed in section 1.2.19. Several sources were essential in deciding on the four commitments, including the 2019 materiality assessment, a benchmark exercise, an analysis of market and regulatory trends, an evaluation of ESG risks in the Company's risk report, a human rights gap analysis and the consideration of the Company's values. The Company updated its materiality assessment in 2022 and used stakeholders inputs to support the ranking, of which ESG issues are most material. The range of ESG topics assessed was defined based on relevant industry and regulatory references, as well as on internal expertise. This materiality matrix is to be fully updated periodically - indicatively every three years - and possibly adjusted in the meantime based on feedback captured from stakeholders in day-to-day business and further methodological improvements. The results of this 2022 update were captured in a materiality matrix , which is fundamental in confirming the relevance of the Company's four commitments. The Company asked its 12 most important stakeholder groups about their view on how important it is for the Company to address a given topic. Scoring was established by capturing the voice of critical stakeholders - including employees, customers, suppliers, investors, social partners - via a survey sent to selected representatives in each category and targeting individuals who are familiar with sustainability matters. Other information was obtained with the support of artificial intelligence , capturing the importance of the respective topics in stakeholders communication. Most information was collected using the Datamaran tool. During the feedback consolidation phase, a greater weight was assigned to critical stakeholders. The Company's approach to sustainability is built on constant engagement with its stakeholders. Key stakeholder groups, in line with International Aerospace Environmental Group recommendation for the sector, include employees, customers, suppliers, industrial partners, social partners, investors, NGOs, authorities or governments or policy makers, industry associations, MRO providers, airports, and the community at large. Dialogue with numerous stakeholders helps the Company progress its sustainability ambition. In addition, it has formalized a number of opportunities to exchange more widely with its stakeholders. For instance, beyond materiality assessment, the Company meets at least twice a year with social partners to review sustainability topics. Besides, the Company established the Airbus Supplier Sustainability Council in 2022. It organized other events where sustainability topics were addressed during the year, such as the Capital Market Day and the Airbus Summit. Additionally, it participated in numerous events such as air shows or conferences, which fostered dialogue on sustainability matters with a large number of external stakeholders including investors, customers, media, NGOs, institutions, policy makers, and other industry or value chain partners. potential impact on rights holders or ecosystems: the Company evaluated the potential impact of its activities on people and environment in connection with the Company's activities - e.g. employees, end users, and local communities. Scoring was established taking into account the scale, scope, remediability and likelihood of risks associated with the topic. This assessment was based on interviews with internal experts in each domain. The assessment of the potential impact of ESG-related topics on the Company's financial performance took into consideration the degree of risk associated with identified ESG-topics topics. Scoring was derived from the Company's enterprise risk management system and complemented by interviews with representatives from the Company's top management. The Executive Committee is supported by several committees or boards linked to the Company's four sustainability commitments: the Environment Executive Steering Committee, the Inclusion & Diversity Advisory Board, the Product Safety Board as well as the Occupational Health and Safety Governance Board, all chaired by Executive Committee members; the Steering Committees of the Human Rights and Sustainable Supply Chain Roadmaps, both sponsored by Executive Committee members. Other sustainability topics such as business integrity are brought directly to the attention of the Executive Committee. Where relevant, additional elements of governance linked to specific topics are explained in the governance sections of this report. Organization and policy framework: The sustainability and environment team put in place in January 2020 at corporate level has continued to develop and expand. Its mission continues to focus on: Setting the ambition level regarding the Company's environmental and social commitments; Identifying the levers to achieve this ambition; Enabling the business to deliver this ambition across the full value chain; Engaging employees on sustainability; Providing clarity on ambition and progress to internal and external stakeholders; Coordinating with relevant functions the performance and reporting on progress with regards to the four commitments. While the sustainability and environment team has a Company-wide role to provide direction and check regularly on advancements across all sustainability topics, there are for each of those topics, related functions, departments or roadmaps driving 
their continuous improvement. These teams are for the most part supported by dedicated policies which are referred to in the Company's Code of Conduct - a single reference intended to guide daily behaviour and help employees resolve the most common ethical and compliance issues that they may encounter. The Code of Conduct applies to all of the Company's employees and directors, regardless of their job title, responsibilities, seniority, or location, within every subsidiary or joint venture where the Company has control. The Company also believes the integration of sustainability criteria into its reward mechanisms is an important enabler for accelerating its sustainability ambition. A sustainability criterion is integrated into the common collective component of the CEO's variable remuneration, accounting for 20%, see - Corporate Governance - 4.2.1 Remuneration Policy. This principle also applies to the other members of the Executive Committee who do not serve on the Board of Directors, and to a large extent to executives and Level IV managers employed at the Company. Other criteria also apply to all employees as summarized below. The Company is determined to conduct its business responsibly and with integrity. It is convinced that promoting responsible business conduct within its value chain is key to sustainable growth. The Company's vigilance plan includes measures to identify risks and prevent serious impacts related to sustainability resulting from the Company's own operations and from its suppliers and other contractors. As far as its own operations are concerned, the Company has adopted internal policies and management tools to perform the monitoring, assessment, mitigation and reporting of risk and compliance allegations, which are embedded into the Company's culture and processes. For the Company's vigilance plan for its supply chain, see - 1.2.15 Responsible Supply Chain, which shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference and form part of this plan. Enterprise risk management and internal audit: With regards to risk management, sustainability risks and opportunities are fully embedded in the Company's ERM system. For further information on ERM, see - Corporate Governance - 4.1.3 Enterprise Risk Management System. For further information on the Company's risks, see - Risk Factors. Internal audits are also performed regularly across the Company, including on sustainability topics. External audits are performed in line with certification requirements, as detailed in the related material topic sections. Sustainability competencies and employee engagement: Raising awareness, developing competencies and engaging employees are essential to preventing and mitigating sustainability risks and maximizing opportunities. On this matter, the Company offered employees more than 900 online and in-person training opportunities in 2022, ranging from ethics and compliance to export control, health and safety, product safety, cyber security, internal controls, inclusion and diversity, quality and customer centricity, sustainability awareness and more. Training courses linked to sustainability topics were integrated into the 2022 mandatory training list for Company employees. Specific information on training is covered in the related material topic sections.Affiliates: All Company controlled affiliates are expected to deploy similar internal policies by applying the Company's directives. A company-wide single directive defines rules, processes and procedures applicable to the Company's affiliates and their respective boards, directors and officers. Its enforcement is supported by the Directors training program which was delivered to 117 people in 2022 over eight full-day digital sessions, as well as on-boarding sessions performed for newly appointed managing directors of controlled affiliates. The single directive assists the Company's affiliates in effectively fulfilling their responsibilities, while assuring the Company's ongoing commitment to high standards of corporate governance. It was built on the basis of Company related internal policies including, but not limited to: the Company's Code of Conduct, International Framework Agreement, Agreement on the European Works Council, Supplier Code of Conduct, Health & Safety Policy, Environmental Policy, the Company's Anti-Corruption Policy and related directives. An online Internal Controls Self Assessment is completed on an annual basis by the controlled affiliates to self-assess their internal controls, including how they relate to the environment, health and safety, human resources, governance, finance, procurement and compliance requirements in order to identify any gaps and define remedial action plans as required. Controlled affiliates can update the self-assessment on a quarterly basis based on their progression. Following ICSA, internal verifications are carried out by the respective corporate functions to validate answers and, when gaps are identified, develop improvement measures jointly with controlled affiliates to enhance their conformity level. In 2022, 81 controlled affiliates were selected to perform such verifications. Verifications are run every three years at least, and more frequently when ICSAs evidence material gaps. The Company's controlled affiliates are also asked to regularly evaluate risks via the Company's ERM system, and to regularly monitor them as part of their risk assessment process. Complementing the materiality assessment described further above, the Company reviewed in 2022 the list of its priority sustainability risks as shown above to help prioritize its actions. This process complements, and is fully integrated into, the Company's ERM process. It is based on contributions and inputs consolidated from a wide range of stakeholders and resources. This includes desktop research, interviews with key internal stakeholders and verification with internal and external stakeholders. The human rights risks identified were complemented and cross-analysed with product life cycle assessments - including sectoral inputs - and the Company's top health and safety risks. Procedures for regularly assessing the situation of relevant subsidiaries, contractors and suppliers: The table below summarizes effective procedures for regularly assessing the situation of relevant subsidiaries, contractors and suppliers. Specific relevant complementary information can be found in the respective material topic sections. The Company is committed to maintaining a speak up culture, by promoting an open and trusting dialogue with employees at all levels. All employees are encouraged to express their views, defend their opinions, and point out unacceptable behavior - especially behavior that violates the Company's Code of Conduct. Employees can raise concerns with their line manager, their human resources business partner, a legal and compliance representative, or through the Company's OpenLine hotline. OpenLine is anonymous where legally permissible. It covers all sustainability topics and is also available to external stakeholders including, affiliates and suppliers. The Company endeavors to ensure that the procedures to assess, investigate and manage allegations are well-aligned throughout the Company. In line with the Company's purpose, pioneering sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world, and its aim to lead the transition of the air transport sector towards its net-zero carbon emissions aspirational goal, the Company's foremost ambition as an aircraft manufacturer is to bring the first hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft to the market by the middle of the next decade, and to play a leading role in the decarbonization of the aviation sector. In parallel, the Company is investing large resources into examining and reducing the impact of its products in operation together with all actors within the aviation sector. Consideration of greenhouse gas emissions throughout the value chain, which are predominantly carbon dioxide emissions, is a key focus for the Company's analysis of its contribution to climate change. The non-CO2 effects of aircraft operations are also being studied in order to determine their potential contribution to the climate. Climate change is considered by the Company as a financially material topic and is one of the top Company risks. Impact materiality was also confirmed through the comprehensive Scope 1, 2 and 3 screening completed in 2022 in the framework of the Company submitting targets for validation of the Science-Based Target initiative, using the recommended Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. While Scope 1 & 2 represent less than 0.2% of total emissions each, Scope 3 category 11 - Use of sold products - has been identified as highly material for the Company, representing above 90% of total emissions. The second most material was Category 1 - Purchased goods and services, representing around 2.5% of total emissions. For those categories, more precise methodological inventories have been developed. CO2 emissions from commercial aircraft in operation appear to be the most material category. According to both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency, air transport represented over 2% of global man-made GHG emissions in 2021. While this makes the decarbonization of aircraft operations the absolute priority, addressing emissions from upstream industrial operations, including the Company's own, is also seen as an important objective. In this context, the Company's roadmap to decarbonization is intrinsically linked to the entire sector's. While the Company has a direct and critical role in developing and providing technical solutions, the concomitant development of adapted ecosystems will also be a key success factor, which the Company intends to facilitate and enable. In addition, in order to better meet stakeholders expectations and develop its own climate strategy, the Company adheres to the CDP, SBTi and TCFD initiatives. In 2022, the Company's approach to climate change was rated A- by the CDP for the third consecutive year. In addition, the Company has recently set its first near-term science-based targets to reduce emissions on all scopes, in line with a 1.5 Celsius temperature pathway for its Scope 1 & 2 emissions, which were submitted to SBTi in June 2022 and validated in January 2023. The following sections gather information related to the four pillars of the TCFD framework, of which the Company has been a supporter since December 2020. The Airbus Environmental Policy is the top level definition of the guiding principles, vision, mission and associated initiatives for the environment. The policy applies company-wide, including to affiliates where the Company owns more than half of the voting rights or the right to appoint the majority of the board directors. The policy also covers the Company's employees and contractors while at the Company's sites or at work under the responsibility of the Company. It takes a holistic approach to measuring and acting upon the Company's environmental performance by assessing the environmental impact of internal operations, as well as providing capabilities to the Company's customers to reduce the impact of the products in operation. This also means introducing a life-cycle perspective and mitigating the risks and impacts at all stages of the life-cycle: from the procurement of raw materials, through the design and manufacturing of products, to their in-service life until their retirement. Two main management structures are relevant for the governance of sustainability matters and climate change: the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. As mentioned earlier, the Board of Directors is supported by the ECSC. In practical terms, the ECSC, as a committee of the Board of Directors, oversees strategic decision-making and the execution of the approved sustainability strategy, including areas such as innovation and environmental and climate action. In 2022, the ECSC reviewed and provided guidance on a wide variety of climate-related topics, including the SBTi targets, SAF, and decarbonisation of the supply chain. To support the Executive Committee in environmental matters, especially climate-related, an Environment Executive Steering Committee was established in 2019. The EnC is composed of members of the Executive Committee and senior executives company-wide responsible for environmental topics. It meets once a month to review progress and take decisions on all matters related to environmental strategy. The EnC reviews climate change related topics, including the progress on meeting objectives to reduce GHG emissions, the decarbonisation strategy and climate-related risks. Environmental operations are led by the Sustainability & Environment department, whose role is to guide the business on environmental matters and to set the policy and deploy, drive and improve the Environmental Management System throughout the Company. The Company's EMS is based on ISO 14001:2015. It was recertified in November 2022, having previously confirmed by certification surveillance audits in 2020 and 2021. The Company's environmental strategy is implemented operationally by dedicated multi-functional teams at corporate and/or divisional level. These cover topics such as industrial and site impact, product operation, supply chain or chemical substances. The Company actively monitors its environmental data throughout the organization in order to measure the environmental impact of its operations, track its performance and communicate information on environmental matters to internal and external stakeholders. Since 2010, environmental data published by the Company has been verified by external auditors. This data is included in the ESG data board at the end of this section. Capturing Emerging Regulatory Requirements, Stakeholder's Expectations and Trends In order to be aware of fast-evolving sustainability regulations, requirements and expectations that could impact its business, a Sustainability Regulatory Intelligence team monitors regulatory developments with a view to understanding, evaluating, anticipating and preparing for legal and regulatory requirements that apply to the Company's activities and products. This Sustainability Regulatory Intelligence team covers sustainability-related topics, including: environment, human rights and sustainable finance. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company's ERM system. A specific sustainability and environment ERM plan integrates additional requirements, defined within the ISO 14001:2015 certified EMS, and provides a set of rules applicable company-wide, to ensure a consistent management of environmental risks and opportunities. Relevant criteria for the evaluation of environmental risks and opportunities include: financial impact, impact on environmental performance, and impact on EMS certification, as well as legal, supply chain and reputational aspects. Risks and opportunities are reported quarterly to the Executive Committee of the Company and of its Divisions, including climate-related risks. Top risks are consolidated at Company level to be brought to the attention of the Board of Directors and reviewed semi-annually. In accordance with TCFD recommendations, the Company is strengthening its ERM risk identification process for climate-related risks and opportunities, incorporating climate scenario analysis. Climate-related risks shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference and form part of the non-financial information. The Company used three temperature climate scenarios: 1.5 Celsius, 2 Celsius and 3 Celsius; and three time horizons: short-term, medium-term and long-term in identifying climate-related risks and opportunities. The assessment of risks and opportunities identified by the Company is subject to revision as the methodology and process further mature. Climate risks and methodology are described in - Risk Factors - Environment, Human Rights, Health & Safety Risks. They are complemented by the following opportunities identified: Exploring and identifying new business opportunities in the field of renewable and low-carbon energy in order to position the Company in the energy value chain and contribute to the Paris Agreement temperature goals. Demand for more energy-efficient products or products allowing the use of other energies could lead to an accelerated airline fleet replacement and to new business lines; Growing market for Earth observation, atmospheric and weather data monitoring services. Products and services: Increased need for Earth observation, atmospheric and weather data services could increase market demand for certain products and services of the Company, and lead to the creation of new business opportunities. The outcome of the Company's qualitative analysis is synthesized in the following table. Based on identified risks and opportunities, the Company has established a transition plan covering its industrial operations, products and services, supply chain, employees and communities, including relevant targets, against which performance is monitored and reported. Regarding GHG emissions, this plan was based on a scientific approach and is consistent with the aviation sector's decarbonisation long-term aspirational goal of reaching net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. Its success will depend on coordinated collaboration with numerous players in the sector. The Company strives to have the aviation sector engaged to work towards and contribute to a just transition to a low-carbon economy, whereby air transport's decarbonisation journey is fair and inclusive. According to the International Energy Agency, based on the remaining global carbon budget and the share allocated to air transport, air transport can grow at a certain level and meet the Paris Agreement objectives. This relies in part on technological developments to improve the efficiency of air transport, in which the Company has a critical role to play. This approach also echoes net zero carbon 2050 ambitions from international sectoral bodies such as the Air Transport Action Group , as well as the UN specialized civil aviation body, the International Civil Aviation Organization. This is consistent with the Company's mid-term target setting, covering all three scopes, and with its core product policy that focuses on developing and delivering aircraft with lower carbon emissions while engaging with the energy ecosystem. The cost of such a transformation of the sector is expected to be substantial. In particular, the carbon price and the extra cost for SAF and/or higher investments are likely to materially impact business models of operators. However, even if reportedly difficult to predict, according to a study published in 2022 by ATAG named What will it cost to get to net-zero carbon for global aviation? these extra costs could be offset to a large extent by more efficient operations, especially where markets are developing. This could mean limited consequences on air fares, with differences across regions. Ultimately, the overall affordability of air travel could remain relatively similar, and so access to air travel should be preserved for the greatest number of people, according to the report. The required transformation of the sector also implies the emergence of new technologies and associated ecosystems, with expected impacts on jobs and required skills. Preparing the workforce for such changes will be both a social duty and an important success factor. Conversely, if uncontrolled, the development of these technologies and energies could have undesirable side effects, such as inappropriate land use impacting local communities and human rights. The Company will strive to influence the ecosystem to consider and avoid these impacts, and to engage accordingly with any relevant stakeholders in constant dialogue. The Company has defined targets and ambitions for its own operations. CO2 emissions: reduce direct and indirect net GHG emissions by 63% by 2030 compared to 2015 across the whole Company reporting scope. This target is in line with a 1.5 Celsius pathway and was validated by SBTi in January 2023. As an additional voluntary commitment, the Company has committed to compensating all residual emissions for scopes 1 & 2 from 2023 and gradually switching to using only carbon removals from 2030 and on-wards; beyond the mid-term plan, the Company's ambition is to pursue reducing emissions aligned with a 1.5 Celsius trajectory towards 2050. In order to do so, it is evaluating the future application of the SBTi Net-Zero standard and removing residual emissions as an additional voluntary commitment; interim targets are set in line with the Company's 2030 roadmap. They refer to a material sub-scope of its operations representing 89% of total reported emissions in 2022, on which the Company can have a more direct control and influence. This target was set in absolute value at 687kt CO2e for 2023 on a scope extended to another four sites. For performance monitoring purposes, the Company refers to Scope 1 & 2 market-based proxy - market-based , i.e. location based with purchased guarantees of origin deduced. The Company is working towards improving data collection and market-based methodology implementation. Meanwhile, this metric is used by the Company to measure its progress towards its 2030 target, in order to be able to take into account the contribution of its electricity sourcing on its industrial decarbonisation target. This refining of methodology is expected to trigger restatements in the coming years, including that of the 2015 baseline. Energy: reduce final energy consumption from stationary sources and electricity by 20% by 2030 compared to 2015 across the whole Company reporting scope. In order to deliver its ambitions, the Company has developed a comprehensive action plan for both stationary and mobile sources. This takes into account both efficiency and decarbonisation measures, complemented by an offset strategy for residual emissions. This roadmap was further strengthened in 2022, and, together with proof points, can be synthesized as follows. In order to meet the -20% target by 2030, a portfolio of projects was identified and phased, including low-energy lighting, improved insulation, voltage management, energy-efficient heating and cooling or optimized ventilation system, as well as enabling projects such as extending metering network, and enhancing energy monitoring solutions. In 2022, 17,500 fixed phones were removed across European sites. In France, it represented electricity savings of 920 MWh. The installation of a compressed air management system in Donauwoerth has saved approximately 150 MWh. In Broughton, automatic standby in Paint Shops during weekends and shutdowns has already led to energy saving of 340 MWh. In the context of the energy crisis in Europe, the Company undertook a number of actions to contribute to the collective effort as a corporate citizen. This included reducing heating systems temperature by 1 Celsius in its European sites, reducing heating device energy consumption by about 7%, and diverting from the use of gas to other sources of energy where possible in German sites. Switching to lower emission vehicles where possible and avoiding emissions through better planning of flights and logistics. Since 2022, new Beluga jigs and tools have enabled each logistic flight to transport two A350 wings instead of one previously. Deployment of Airseas Seawing for vessels: the experiment on the Ville de Bordeaux transatlantic logistic vessel started in December 2021 continued in 2022. Ambition to secure at least 90% renewable or low-carbon electricity direct supply to all sites in Europe before 2030. This will be achieved with the implementation from 2023 of power purchase agreement contracts and a combination of local projects, complemented by electricity generated from nuclear power. The amount of electricity purchased through the PPA contracts will increase progressively. The renewable power purchase agreement project launched in 2020 reached a major milestone in 2022 with the validation of renewable and low-carbon power purchase requirements as well as finalizing the selection of suppliers. The Company is making progress on contracting for 2023 and 2024. All remaining purchased electricity in Europe will be covered by guarantees of origin from 2024. In 2030, this will represent a maximum of 10% of consumed electricity. Since 2019, the share of electricity consumption from industrial operations in Europe which is covered by GoOs has increased annually by 10%, exceeding 40% in 2022. In addition, the Company is investigating similar opportunities in other regions. The installation of a combined heat and power plant in Donauwoerth led to a further saving of 1,800t of CO2. An Enthalpy Recovery project in Illescas and energy consumption by 1,089 MWh resulting in about 380t CO2e saving. The share of SAF used in the Company's own operations will progressively increase to at least 30% by 2030. The Company set an interim target of 10% in 2023 for its commercial aircraft activities and its Helicopters Division. This will concern flight tests, delivery flights and logistic flights. In addition, the Company also started using sustainable fuels for its maritime logistics. Since 2019, SAF has been used in the operation of the Company's Beluga transport aircraft for the purpose of internal logistics. In 2022, flight test activities in both Divisions started using SAF. In total, an estimated 4,823 tons CO2 were saved during the year when compared to conventional kerosene. The Company has committed to remove 100% of its residual emissions by 2030, which will represent around 400kt CO2e in 2030. It will start with compensating all remaining emissions from 2023, with a gradual phase-in of carbon removal solutions to cover 100% of residual emissions by 2030. Both nature-based and technology-based solutions are considered, in alignment with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports. Since 2019, the Company has introduced a mechanism to compensate for its business travel emissions based on the concepts of additionality, real reduction, prevention of double counting, prevention of overestimation and no additional harm. As a minimum, the carbon offsets purchased by the Company are certified by the Gold Standard or Verra or Verified Carbon Standard or Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standards and the supplier needs to show proof of how each one of the mentioned criteria was met. In addition, understanding that these carbon offsetting programs may have gaps in their methodologies, additional proof is requested of how such gaps are managed by the provider. Moreover, societal aspects are considered, such as prevention of child labor, respect of human rights and relations with the communities surrounding the projects. The volume of offsets required in 2022 was around 45 kt CO2e procured through offset producer South Pole in the form of a cluster of compensation and removal projects. This contract with the South Pole has been reviewed to cover the full volume of 2023 residual emissions, estimated to be over 700 kt CO2e. In addition, the Company plans to secure 2024-2030 volumes well in advance. Terms will meet underlying principles of progressive transition towards 100% removals, as well as a relevant mix of nature-based and technology-based solutions. In 2022, to foster tech-based solutions development, the Company has partnered with 1PointFive, a US company, and has pre-purchased 100,000 tons of carbon removals per year over four years - or 400,000 tons in total - as part of an initial off-take. A portion of these volumes will be allocated to the Company's scope 1 & 2 offset strategy. As an enabler for consistent decision making, the Company uses an internal carbon price to support investment with positive energy and CO2 reduction impacts on operations. In 2021, this price was updated from 30 EUR/tCO2 to 150 EUR/tCO2, giving a clear signal to project leaders on the importance of CO2 footprint reduction and enabling an acceleration of project portfolio implementation. In 2022, scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions have decreased by around 5.8%, exceeding the target, primarily due to four factors: the acceleration of energy saving investments and of SAF usage that reached over 3% of the Company's total aircraft fuel consumption, the lower-than-planned industrial ramp-up, the deployment of additional energy saving measures in the context of the energy crisis, as well as clement weather conditions especially over the last months of the year. The TCO scope is reviewed annually. It covered 89% of total emissions in 2022. Data were updated to reflect change in TCO scope accordingly. Geographical scope: In 2022, 48 sites. Scope of metrics: Scope 1 & 2 and notably excluding refrigerant leakage, electricity on site from CHP, emissions due to processes, as well as excluding DFO for 12 sites and heating for one site representing less than 4 ktons CO2e in total. Scope 2 is location based with purchased guarantees of origin deduced. Additional performance metrics are disclosed in - 1.2.17 ESG Data Board - Environmental performance. In 2022, the Company defined a target for its Scope 3 category 11 for commercial aircraft products, covering over 90% of its total emissions: reduce scope 3 for commercial aircraft by 46% in terms of CO2 per passenger-kilometer. This target, alongside the Company's scope 1 & 2 target, was validated by SBTi in January 2023, showing the Company's GHG reduction targets are aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement adopted at COP21 in December 2015. It was set based on the carbon budget allocated to aviation by the International Energy Agency in its Sustainable Development Scenario. This is a physical intensity target, in line with the SBTi recommendations, and highlighting the importance of technology and aircraft carbon efficiency for the decarbonisation of the sector. The metric is based on the Company's corresponding scope 3 Use of Sold Product for commercial aircraft. In alignment with SBTi methodology, it now includes emissions from upstream fuel production and predicted average SAF usage over the aircraft lifetime as per IEA SDS scenario. The Company is committed to contributing to meeting the Paris Agreement targets and to taking a leading role in the decarbonisation of the aviation sector in cooperation with all stakeholders. Consequently, the Company is developing a multi-faceted climate-impact program for commercial aircraft. This includes a focus on new aircraft technology development, SAF, hydrogen, air traffic management solutions, and carbon removal solutions. The efforts of the aviation sector to reduce its environmental footprint started decades ago, with significant achievements to report. Since the 1990's, the sector has improved significantly the fuel and CO2 efficiency of subsequent generations of aircraft, thereby reducing CO2 emissions per revenue passenger kilometer by more than 50%. In 2009, the aviation sector was the first to agree at sectoral level on ambitious CO2 emission reduction goals through ATAG by committing to an aspirational goal of reducing net emissions from aviation by 50% by 2050 compared to 2005 levels. In September 2021, ATAG updated its ambition and commitment with the 2021 edition of the ATAG Waypoint 2050 report to reflect the industry's increased ambition to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 and contribute to the Paris Agreement goals. Along with the revised ambition, ATAG provided several scenarios with ranges of improvement for each mitigation option. In the most ambitious scenario, a reduction of up to 40% of CO2 emissions can be achieved through technological developments, as illustrated by the graph. In Europe, the EU Green Deal creates conditions and opportunities for the Company and the European aviation industry to accelerate the transition. The Company supports the ambition to reach a net-zero carbon aviation ecosystem in Europe by 2050, and will contribute to the EU's 2030 Climate Target Plan. At the international level, in October 2022, ICAO member states adopted a long-term aspirational goal that sets the objective of net zero carbon emissions in 2050 for international civil aviation operations. This paves the way for the transformation of the aviation sector on a level playing field and will accelerate the development of mitigation measures such as fleet renewal, aircraft and engine technologies, alternative energy sources such as SAF or green hydrogen, and the optimization of the operational practices and air traffic management enhancements. The Company fully supports this international achievement. In this context and as a core axis of its strategy, the Company aims to accelerate the development of lower emission technologies in order to market lower carbon aircraft such as hydrogen-powered aircraft. Fostering the ecosystem readiness including associated infrastructure and the dynamic deployment of SAF will be another priority, in order to achieve the ambition while minimizing the recourse to offsetting, as presented below. Around 75% of the global commercial aircraft fleet is still made up of older generation aircraft, while latest generation aircraft are up to 25% more efficient than the previous generation. Renewing the fleet therefore offers immediate huge potential for aviation decarbonisation.The Company's commercial aircraft portfolio includes the most efficient aircraft: The A350 and A330neo offer 25% reduction in fuel burn and significantly reduced noise footprint versus the previous generation of aircraft. The A320neo family brings a 20% reduction in fuel burn, and nearly half the noise footprint compared to previous generation of aircraft. The A220 offers 25% reduction in CO2 emissions per seat versus previous generation of small single aisle aircraft, 50% reduction in noise footprint and 50% fewer NOx emissions than the standards. The Company is continuously improving its products through new aerostructures designs and technologies, advanced materials, upgraded systems and more fuel-efficient engines aiming to achieve CO2, NOx and noise emissions reductions in operations. In 2022, 99% of the delivered commercial aircraft corresponded to latest generation aircraft. Continuous improvement commitment is also reflected by the Company's contribution to Europe's CleanSky2 program: a military aircraft C295 from the Company has been used as an in-flight technology demonstrator, Flight Test Bed. Developing and deploying SAF, with all aircraft types 100% SAF compatible before 2030. In order to accelerate its action plan, the Company strengthened its governance on this matter by creating a dedicated project team, responsible for the end-to-end SAF roadmap strategy and deployment. Although they currently represent a small share of aviation's fuel use, SAF are key for the air transport sector decarbonisation strategy. All the Company's commercial aircraft are already certified to fly with a fuel blend of up to 50% SAF. SAF produced by using most advanced pathways can provide CO2 emission reductions of up to 80% throughout their life cycle. This means that already today, the emissions from aircraft currently offered by the Company could be reduced by 40% if their full blending capability was used. Looking ahead, the Company's ambition is to have all its aircraft platforms, including helicopters, capable of being operated with 100% SAF before the end of the decade. The 50% limit is set today to ensure the blended SAF fits within the JetA specification, and thus can be used on aircraft with no modification. Going beyond this limit implies either modifying the aircraft, and surrounding infrastructure, to adapt to what would be a new fuel, non-drop in, or working on a purely synthetic fuel that would fit within the JetA specification, drop in solution. The Company is involved in two main research projects: VOLCAN and ECLIF3, conducted in partnership with important actors of the industry. Both projects aim at assessing the impact of 100% SAF on engine and fuel systems while measuring the positive impact on aircraft's emissions and fuel efficiency. Both projects will pave the way for going beyond current maximum blending levels for SAF. They will allow the Company to collect information and enable further research activities and technical work in order to reach the goal of gaining 100% SAF certification for commercial flights. Since 2008, the Company has acted as an important catalyst in the certification process, demonstration flights, partnerships and policy advocacy of sustainable jet fuel. Since 2011, over 460,000 commercial flights have used SAF and more than 1 million flights with SAF are expected by 2025. Besides ECLIF and VOLCAN projects, flight test campaigns started with the A380, with the A320 powered by P&W, and with the H225 helicopter. Flight tests using blended SAF were also performed on the A400 M and C295 military aircraft. The Company, the Organisation for Joint Armament Cooperation and the A400 M customer nations are engaged in initial discussions to develop the roadmap towards the certification and operational use of 100% SAF in military aircraft. In addition, the Company and other industry partners have carried out in 2022 the world's first 100% SAF flight using an in-service military aircraft. In addition, as an aircraft operator through its flight tests and internal logistics, the Company strives to prime the pump by demonstrating market demand. In the context of the developing regulatory frameworks fostering SAF market growth, the Company supports policies that would incentivize SAF production and usage at affordable costs. In particular, the Company is supporting and sharing industry best practices, looking at production levels assessment, life cycle analysis methodology and sustainability criteria and standards harmonization. While the aviation sector contemplates an objective of 10% SAF globally by 2030, today's pipeline of demand hardly exceeds 20 M tons, suggesting necessity for further acceleration. The USA Sustainable Skies Act targets 3 billion gallons annually by 2030. The EU's current ReFuelEU legislative proposal targets a 5% SAF mandate for 2030 growing to 63% by 2050. The Company believes a coordinated action of all actors could foster a 10% SAF penetration at the global level by 2030. Today, SAF production is very limited. The price and global production capacity remain the main constraints for operators, preventing large-scale incorporation of these types of fuels. A rapid ramp-up is necessary to enable the aviation sector's ambitions and to decrease the emissions of the Company's product in use. Matching SAF production and demand is essential to achieve the establishment of the SAF market. The Company supports decarbonisation scenarios which include an ambitious rollout of SAF using all possible pathways. Actions need to be global and associated with regulatory frameworks and incentivisation schemes. It is necessary to create market emergence conditions: give visibility and confidence to producers, be capable to attract investors; give access for end users to enough volumes at a fair price, and maintain a level playing field for aviation. Positive momentum is seen in the European Union and in the US. A similar pace for creating a favorable ecosystem is needed worldwide. Creating favorable conditions for the SAF market to develop can be achieved if stakeholders gather together in collaborative platforms such as Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative in the US. As of 2022, 38 countries have implemented SAF policies to support the industry's ambition, according to IATA. The Company estimates that products delivered in 2022 will see their life-time emissions reduced by around 14% thanks to the gradual introduction of SAF during their operational life. This considers a SAF penetration scenario aligned with the IEA SDS, and with the Company's scope 3 disclosure and SBTI-validated target. The Company is engaged in many initiatives and partnerships promoting the development of SAF production and use, participating for instance in the World Economic Forum, including its First Movers Coalition and Clean Skies for Tomorrow coalition, and in the Coalition for the Energies of the Future. This also includes partnerships with producers such as the agreement signed in 2022 with Neste, aiming to accelerate the aviation sector's transition to SAF. As a member of ICCAIA, the Company has actively supported the activities of ICAO defining the 2050 net zero carbon long-term aspirational goal for civil aviation and continuously contributes to the Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection on SAF. The Company contributed to the 2019 study from which the French SAF roadmap was developed. In the UK, the Company is a member of the Jet Zero Council under which a SAF delivery group has been put in place. Regarding SAF production, the Company supports CORSIA's standard emphasizing the necessity to respect land rights and land use rights including indigenous or customary rights. The Company is committed to complying with local regulations and CORSIA's standard for its own usage. On the engine side, the Company is closely following innovations coming from the engine manufacturers, and supporting them to adapt their latest innovation to aircraft needs. The wings are often referred to as the second main lever to reduce aircraft emissions. Several technologies are being studied such as: the Company's transnational research & technology program, wing of tomorrow, has successfully delivered a first full-size wing prototype or demonstrator that will help mature next-generation wing technologies; the completion of the first of three fully composite wing demonstrators marks the integration of more than 100 different component and manufacturing technologies that include an all-new industrial assembly system, and which have helped validate key automation targets; wing of tomorrow is particularly efficient thanks to the incorporation of lighter composite components and of a folding wing tip. In July 2022, the Company partnered with CFM to test flight the open fan technology. The open fan architecture is a key component of the engine maker's revolutionary innovation for sustainable engines technology development program which aims to demonstrate and mature a range of new technologies for future engines that could enter service by the mid-2030's. The open fan engine will be tested on an A380 in the second half of this decade. The eXtra performance wing project, launched in September 2021, improves wing aerodynamics and performance that is intended to be compatible with any future aircraft configuration and propulsion system to reduce CO2 emissions. In April 2022, The Company completed wind-tunnel testing of its eXtra performance wing demonstrator. The Company believes hydrogen is one of the most promising technologies for reducing aviation's climate impact. If produced from low carbon electricity through electrolysis, it allows a significant reduction in overall emissions. Aviation will be an end use application of hydrogen. The Company sees two primary uses for hydrogen: hydrogen can be used to directly power the aircraft by being combusted through modified gas-turbine engines or converted into electric power via fuel cells. The combination of both would create an efficient hybrid electric propulsion chain powered entirely by hydrogen; hydrogen can be used to create eFuels. From hydrogen propulsion to hydrogen-based synthetic SAF, from pod configuration to blended-wing aircraft, the Company is evaluating, maturing and validating radical technological breakthroughs. In 2020 the Company revealed three different hydrogen-powered ZEROe concept aircraft. They illustrate the research that the Company is investing in with the objective to bring a hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft to market in 2035. Progress was made in key areas in 2022: the launch of the hydrogen combustion engine A380-based demonstrator, in partnership with CFM; the iron pod of a first fuel cell powered engine is ready to be tested in the EAS test house, and the launch of its associated demonstrator, also based on a modified A380; the launch of the Blue Condor demonstrator to study and assess the impact of non-CO2 emissions induced by hydrogen combustion; the launch of Zero-Emission Development Centers around Europe, and the first prototype of cryogenic tanks tested with nitrogen and then hydrogen. The Company goes beyond technology maturation by collaborating with the wider ecosystem, and focusing primarily on the evolution of market needs and how they can be answered with low-carbon hydrogen. It has engaged in many partnerships, as well as collaborations and alliances with airports, airlines, and energy providers. Hydrogen can only become a substantial decarbonisation lever with the support of all stakeholders. In 2019, the Company signed a memorandum of understanding with airlines such as SAS Scandinavian Airlines and easyJet to jointly research a hydrogen-powered aircraft ecosystem and its infrastructure requirements. It has joined several major hydrogen alliances, such as the Hydrogen Council, Hydrogen Europe, and European Clean Hydrogen Alliance. It has launched in 2020 a joint-venture with ElringKlinger in order to benefit from the huge cross-industry experience of other industries, and accelerate its ambition. It also participates in The Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Joint Undertaking, European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, France Hydrogene, French Conseil National del Hydrogene, and the German Wasserstoffrat. The Company promotes the H2 Hub at airport concept in which partners will join forces to adapt the infrastructure to the use of hydrogen by aircraft, and more. In this context, it has signed partnerships with Delta, Wizz Air, Linde, Air Liquide, Changi Airport Caas, Korean Air, Incheon Airport, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Kansai Airport, Plug Power, Fortescue Future Industries, ANA, Air New Zealand, Vinci, Engie, AREC, group ADP, Bristol Airport, Hynamics, Hydrogen South West, SAVE SNAM and Milan Airport. The Company's work in electric flight has laid the foundations for the future concept of lower carbon commercial aircraft. Since 2014, the Company has been exploring how recent technology advancements - from battery capacity and autonomy to electric propulsion - can help drive the development of new kinds of aerial vehicles with the potential for significantly reduced impact. The Company has partnered with Daher and Safran to develop a distributed hybrid-propulsion aircraft demonstrator with the support of France's CORAC and DGAC and for which it is providing battery technology and overseeing aerodynamic modelling. Urban air mobility ambition. The idea for a compact flying taxi first came from the Company's desire to take city commuting into the air in a sustainable way. The Company has learned a lot from the test campaigns with two demonstrators, CityAirbus and Vahana. Beyond the vehicle, the Company is working with partners, cities; and city inhabitants in order to create the ecosystem that is essential for this new operating environment to deliver a sustainable service to society. In 2022, the Company partnered with Renault Group to advance research on electrification and mature technologies associated with next-generation battery systems. Engineering teams will focus on energy storage, which remains one of the main roadblocks for the development of long-range electric vehicles. This includes technology bricks related to energy management optimization and battery weight improvement, and looking for the best pathways to move from current cell chemistries to all solid-state designs which could double the energy density of batteries in the 2030 time frame. The Company is also investing in the required facilities to test these new technologies. Inaugurated in 2019, the more than 3,000 m2 E-Aircraft System House is the largest test house dedicated exclusively to alternative propulsion systems and fuels in Europe. This means the Company can now test the latest electric motors and hybrid-electric engines directly on its own premises, and develop its own low-emission alternative propulsion units. In May 2018, the Company created the Urban Mobility entity to take its exploration into cutting-edge commercial urban air mobility solutions and services to the next level. The CityAirbus NextGen revealed in September 2021 strikes a balance between hover and forward flight. This product vision is intended to target the first use cases and support the creation and maturation of the technology, business and industry. Improving the efficiency of air transport operations and infrastructure could reduce emissions by up to 10%. The Company therefore supports initiatives aimed at reducing ATM inefficiencies such as the Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research program, while working on disruptive practices like formation flying. The Company also focuses on developing fuel saving procedures for airports and ground operations to minimize the use of engine power and auxiliary power units while the aircraft is on the ground. The Company organizes face-to-face forums and webinars every year with airlines to exchange knowledge on how to improve ground and in-flight operational efficiency and using latest technological solutions. Namely, a fuel efficiency network has been developed with representatives of the ecosystem including airlines, ATM, engine manufacturers, airports and suppliers. In November 2019, the Company launched the fellofly project which aims to demonstrate the technical, operational and commercial viability of two aircraft flying closer together for long-haul flights. Through fellofly, the follower aircraft will retrieve the energy lost by the wake of a leader aircraft by flying in the smooth updraft of the air it creates. This provides lift to the follower aircraft, allowing it to decrease engine thrust and therefore reduce fuel consumption in the range of 5-10% per trip. Through its subsidiary Navblue, the Company provides services helping its customers to minimize fuel consumption with best operational practices, innovative services and training. Through its subsidiary Metron, the Company provides solutions to airports, authorities and airlines to optimize air traffic management taking into account live congestion and weather condition data, hence reducing engines running time and fuel burnt. In 2022, flights in the airspace of nine countries could benefit from it. Coordinated by the Company in the Single European Sky ATM Research program, ALBATROSS launched in 2021, is an initiative of major European aviation stakeholders to demonstrate how the technical and operational innovations the Company delivered in the past years can be combined and used all together to further reduce the environmental footprint of aviation on the short term. It includes technologies such as continuous climb and descent operations, flight trajectory optimization with real-time transmission of four-dimensional trajectory data and hybrid taxibot assistance on ground operations. By end 2020, the Company's fellofly demonstrator project had signed agreements with two airline customers, Frenchbee and SAS Scandinavian Airlines, as well as with three Air Navigation Service Providers - France's DSNA, the UK's NATS and European Eurocontrol - to demonstrate its operational feasibility. In November 2021, two A350 test aircraft conducted the first-ever transatlantic fellofly flight confirming the potential for fuel savings of more than 5% during long-haul flights. In 2022, Metron's ATM optimization solution deployment was further extended to Qatar and expanded in Singapore. It is estimated that some 2 Mt CO2 were avoided in 2022 by the global fleet thanks to this innovation. Strategic pathway 5 Encouraging temporary CO2 emission compensation schemes Finally, CO2 emission compensation will be instrumental to stabilizing aviation emissions in the medium term until disruptive solutions reach market maturity. For that reason, the Company supports ICAO's CORSIA scheme as the only global market-based measure for international civil aviation. The Company believes that direct air carbon capture and storage is a high-potential technology that could turn out to be meaningful in carbon schemes applicable to aviation at some point. It involves capturing CO2 emissions directly from the air using high powered fans. Once removed from the air, the CO2 can be used to produce power-to-liquid SAF that is drop-in compatible with today's aircraft. As the aviation industry cannot capture CO2 emissions released into the atmosphere at source, captured atmospheric CO2 can also be safely and permanently stored in reservoirs within rock formations. This latter carbon removal solution would allow the sector to extract the equivalent amount of emissions from its operations directly from the air, thereby removing residual emissions. In 2021, the Company and a number of major airlines such as Air Canada, Air France-KLM, easyJet, International Airlines Group, LATAM Airlines Group, Lufthansa Group and Virgin Atlantic have signed Letters of Intent to explore opportunities for a future supply of carbon removal credits from direct air carbon capture technology. In 2022, the Company partnered with 1PointFive and pre-purchased 400,000 tons of carbon removals. It also invested in Carbon Engineering Ltd. a Canadian-based climate solutions company, operating the largest Direct Air Carbon Capture Research & Development facility in the world. Aircraft engines produce emissions linked to the fuel combustion and indirect emissions formed in its wake. Those emissions, which have an impact on climate when flying in high altitudes, include CO2, nitrogen oxides, water vapour, nvPM, sulphur oxides and condensation trails. Depending upon prevailing weather conditions, altitude and geographical location, non-CO2 emissions can change the chemical composition of the atmosphere and the cloudiness, which in turn affect the climate. CO2 emissions contribute to increased atmospheric CO2 concentrations, which induce a low and positive radiative forcing, but with cumulative effects due to the long lifetime of this greenhouse gas in the atmosphere. Non-CO2 emissions do not have the same cumulative effect as CO2. Non-CO2 forcers such as contrail-cirrus and NOx are short-lived components that have stronger, but time-limited effects. Uncertainties are still high on the exact impact of non-CO2 emissions of aviation. Lee et al. 2020, states that uncertainties around the contribution of non-CO2 emissions on aviation's net effective radiative forcing are 8 times higher than those of CO2. Non-CO2 emissions can have both positive and negative radiative impacts. In particular, contrail-cirrus can have large cooling or warming effects depending on several factors such as their location and time of generation, spatial coverage, lifetime, or optical properties, though the effect at night is exclusively warming. The Company is actively working on a large portfolio of projects focused on increasing the understanding of non-CO2 emissions generation, their evolution and their climate effects, but also to evaluate and develop solutions covering several promising mitigation options impacting three well-identified domains: through the use of new energies such as SAF or hydrogen, enhanced engine technology and flight operations. These include: on SAF, the ECLIF and VOLCAN projects included a DLR's Falcon aircraft, flying within 100 m behind the Company test aircraft fueled with 100% SAF, to capture and analyze in-flight data. The preliminary observations show a positive impact of SAF on aircraft emissions, and the tests will continue in 2023; on hydrogen, the Company launched Blue Condor in 2022, a demonstrator taking a modified glider up to 33,000 feet to analyze hydrogen combustion's impact on contrail properties. The result of this analysis will provide critical information on aviation's non-CO2 emissions, including contrails and NOx, in advance of the ZEROe demonstrator flight testing; on operational measures, the Company announced in 2022 its participation in the Contrail Impact Task Force, a cross-sector cooperation led by the RMI to explore opportunities to address the warming impact of certain contrails. It also submitted a project proposal in the frame of SESAR 3. If selected - expected early 2023, as expected, the Company's project will run for three years with the objectives of improving weather forecasting capabilities, improving climate impact assessment, defining a climate-optimized concept of operations and trialing system solutions at aircraft and ATC level. The project will bring together experts and partners from climate science, meteorological institutions, airlines, manufacturers and air traffic control to focus on effective and operationally viable solutions to aviation non-CO2 emissions. Climate change-related disasters are set to become more intense and frequent. This will require immediate action from rescue teams for whom the Company's products play an important role. For instance, the Company's helicopters are used by public authorities around the world in missions linked to disaster risk management, including medical evacuation, search and rescue or firefighting operations. In 2022, around 20% of delivered helicopters were equipped for such missions. Military aircraft platforms can play a crucial role in the protection of populations from natural disasters, such as for example during the aftermath of hurricane Irma in 2017 when several European nations used their A400 M and C295 aircraft to transport first aid and humanitarian equipment to several impacted Caribbean islands. In July 2022, a removable firefighting demonstrator kit was successfully tested on the A400 M airlifter during a flight test campaign in Spain. Due to its low-level flight capability and maneuverability at low speeds, the A400 M can accurately drop payloads of water at very low heights, down to 150 ft. The Company's space products also play an important role in the understanding of climate phenomenon and monitoring of their evolution. Today, 20 of the Company's satellites are involved in climate change monitoring and an additional 20 are in development. As climate adaptation entails preparing for natural disasters, this critical geospatial data enables the Company to deliver data that helps governments and humanitarian agencies predict and manage disasters. Earth-observation satellites allow the monitoring of deforestation, rising sea levels and GHG emissions in the atmosphere. The Company is involved in all major environment-monitoring satellite programs in Europe and plays a key role in all 12 of the Copernicus missions, the EU's Earth Observation Program. For instance, the Sentinel-5 Precursor satellite is fitted with an array of measuring equipment used for air quality, ozone and ultra-violet radiation, and climate monitoring and forecasting. Sentinel-5P takes up to 40 million observations per day and provides a much finer view of emissions than previous satellites or detectors on the ground. In 2022, the Company has progressed on the development and testing of new technologies that will be featured on biomass, the first ever satellite that will report how much CO2 is captured by the world's forests. The spacecraft will deliver accurate maps of tropical, temperate and boreal forest biomass and changes in the biomass stock that are not obtainable by ground measurement techniques. In arid areas of the planet, it will see through to the underlying bedrock, enabling mapping of the rock structure and search for subterranean reservoirs of water. Upcoming missions also include EarthCARE, monitoring the impact of clouds and tiny atmospheric particles on atmospheric radiation; Merlin, studying GHG and global warming; and Microcarb, measuring CO2 levels. The Company's satellite-based services help support a more sustainable agriculture. They provide insights enabling reduction in the use of nitrates, and play a significant role in helping agro-industrial companies like Ferrero or Nestle monitor adherence to their non-deforestation commitments. The Company's Pleiades Neo constellation delivers precision insights to help farmers cultivate their fields more sustainably in the context of a changing climate. Pleiades Neo's Red Edge band makes it possible to accurately predict and pinpoint subtle stress situations in crops long before the problem can be detected with conventional vegetation indices or even the human eye. This information will allow farmers to assess the root cause of the problem and take remedial action before the ailment spreads or crops are lost, enabling more effective climate adaptation. The Company is investing in and accelerating its efforts on five complementary strategic pathways to reduce its environmental footprint, in support of the overall sector ambition, as highlighted above. Overall, a major portion of the Company capital expenditures, R&T, and R&D expenses is linked to its commercial aircraft activities and the realization of these five decarbonisation pathways. In 2022, the total R&D spend of the Company amounted to EUR 3.1 billion. In 2022, the Company delivered 661 commercial aircraft. Of note, the emissions of five A330-200 aircraft destined to A330 MRTT production are excluded from the commercial aircraft perimeter and included in the military aircraft perimeter as part of the other products category. Based on an average life-time in service of around 22 years, and SAF uptake assumptions as per IEA-SDS scenario 2020, the total CO2 emissions for these products over their anticipated life-time is estimated at around 425 MtCO2e, which translates to an average efficiency of 64.4gCO2e per passenger-kilometer. In 2021, the Company delivered 611 aircraft with resulting estimated life-time emissions of around 400 MtCO2e and average efficiency of 66.3gCO2e per passenger-kilometer. In 2022, in order to align with SBTi-validated target methodology, the Company established a new efficiency metric that will be used for performance measurement. Namely, the difference in the two efficiency metrics can be explained by differences in the following two key assumptions: the integration of emissions related to the upstream fuel production and the consideration of the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumptions, as illustrated on the chart for the year 2022. The Company estimates that products delivered in 2022 will see their life-time emissions reduced by around 14% thanks to the gradual introduction of SAF during their operational life. Since 2015, aircraft efficiency measured through this metric has improved by 27%, largely supported by significant investments into new aircraft technology and designs, as well as by projected SAF uptake impact to a lower extent. Given the variable time horizons of each of the five decarbonisation pathways presented above, it is expected that the increase of SAF used by airlines in the coming decades will have a decisive impact for achieving this -46% target by 2035. The Company intends to develop means to monitor the actual availability of SAF and the resulting impact on aircraft emissions. While the greatest contribution from the Company's supply chain to decarbonisation will be the capacity of its suppliers to accompany the development and delivery of technical solutions, getting its whole supply chain operations engaged into the transition towards a low carbon economy also remains a priority. In 2021, the Company published a first evaluation of the GHG emissions arising from the goods and services it purchases based on its 2020 spend that amounted to 11.3 MtCO2e. In the course of 2022, the calculation methodology has been refined which resulted in a reduction of 12.5% of reported emissions to 9.9 MtCO2e. Following similar assumptions, emissions based on 2021 spent were estimated at about 8.4 MtCO2e. 2022 estimates will be computed in early 2023 as spent data consolidation is completed. These evaluations were performed using a dedicated tool developed by the International Aerospace Environmental Group and are expected to be further refined in the coming years as mass-based information can be used. While this method includes a certain degree of uncertainty - considered high by the IAEG on a certain number of emissions factors used - it provides a relevant view of the sources of GHG emissions in the Company's supply chain and enables comparison of the Company's various scopes throughout its supply chain. Notably, this evaluation helped prioritize the engagement with the highest contributing suppliers, through the CDP or the Airbus Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, the Company considers a CDP score as a relevant indicator for assessing the maturity of its suppliers to address climate change, and requests its main suppliers to respond to the CDP Supply Chain program on an annual basis. In 2022, it continued engaging with suppliers representing 82% of the Company's total sourcing volume, following which suppliers representing 78% of the Company's sourcing volume have completed the CDP questionnaire. In 2022, suppliers representing 66% of the sourcing volume received an A or B score. Sending feedback letters to all suppliers after the 2021 campaign has allowed the Company to raise the awareness of suppliers and propose areas of improvement. From the 2022 campaign results, the Company is going to request multi-year action plans from suppliers that got a C or D score in order to foster improvement in the management of their carbon footprint. These action plans will be followed up by the procurement organization. Success can only be collective and the engagement of each and every employee is necessary. Environmental targets and objectives, including the ones related to climate, are internally promoted under the label high5. Periodic communication campaigns are led using different communication channels, such as posters and the intranet. In addition, climate-related objectives are part of the Company Top Company Objectives. In the process of being cascaded to functions and teams, TCO's trigger discussions where teams reflect on how and to what extent they can contribute and set meaningful objectives. Furthermore, a dedicated section in the Company's intranet provides information about the Company's commitment towards climate, and related action plans are available for employees to expand their awareness. On the training platform, e-learnings in relation to climate, such as climate crisis, climate science, or climate change economics, are freely available to employees while one environment-related e-learning has been included since 2022 in the Company mandatory yearly training plan, applicable to all employees. From October 2021 to September 2022, some 73,457 employees were trained in environmental awareness. Since 2021, the Company has established a global sustainability ambassadors network now comprising 448 ambassadors from across 18 functions and 18 countries. Ambassadors help to foster sustainability culture and awareness, engage their local teams in various initiatives, and support the adoption and integration of sustainability objectives into the business, including climate and communities. In addition, in 2022, through the Company's impact digital platform, employees had the chance to participate in several climate change-related challenges inspired by international days such as World Water Day and UN Earth Day, recording over 1,700 individual actions. In order to better embed this ambition into the Company's performance management, CO2 performance targets have been included in variable remuneration schemes since 2021. Such short-term incentivisation enables to accelerate the transformation of the Company and cultural shift. The Executive Committee agreed in 2021 to include a reduction target for 2022 of -5% for CO2 Scopes 1 & 2, part of the Top Company Objectives. The 2022 target was overachieved with an actual performance of -8.5%. This target was set in absolute value at 687kt CO2e for 2023. In addition, when relevant, the transposition of TCOs into individual or team objectives may impact the variable remuneration of concerned employees, such as engineers working on decarbonisation-related projects, or employees working on the Company's industrial decarbonisation roadmap. The Company's transition plan largely relies on technology and innovation. Anticipating, developing and securing required competencies will be decisive, both for the Company to be able to deliver on its commitment and for employees skills to be adapted to a changing world. Due to the significant impact of lower-carbon aviation and eco-design on its business, the Company estimates that at least 50% of engineering profiles will have to be upskilled by 2030. Clean and Sustainable Aerospace is identified as one critical skill group in the Company's competence strategy. Specifically, identified skills requiring priority action are: hybrid propulsion, hydrogen, electrical high voltage, cryogenics - directly related to decarbonisation innovation - as well as supply chain environmental impact analysis or eco-design. Dedicated learning paths are being developed and deployed under the leadership of academies in the Company functions. In addition, when needed, targeted external recruitment will enable the Company to align its workforce skills with its business challenge. Cooperating with the Scientific Community and Universities Climate change is a critical challenge for humanity, and the Company believes innovation and technology can bring some pieces of the solution. Achieving this common goal will require all forces from the scientific community to be joined. Hence the Company participates in a number of research programs worldwide; it is committed to sharing acquired knowledge that could help accelerate the progress of science. For instance, the Company is collaborating with the DLR in Germany, Manchester Metropolitan University in the UK, with the ONERA or the Montpellier Business School in France, the Denmark Technical University in Denmark, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the USA, the Tsinghua University in China or the European Joint Research Centre. The Company also created the CEDAR Chair for Eco-Design of Aircraft together with ISAE-SUPAERO in 2013. This five-year chair aimed to define disruptive concepts in air transport by introducing, from the start of the design, innovative technologies. In 2019, the partnership was renewed and adopted the main learning of prior years all while integrating a more comprehensive environmental engineering approach. The CEDAR Chair is composed of international scholarships, interdisciplinary program of student projects derived from concrete industrial cases in the field of Future Aircraft Design, and environmental engineering certificate with focus on the issues of sustainable development, offering an approach to design aircraft over the entire product life cycle, addresses eco-mobility and the economics of air transport. It also provides a research component that focuses on technological developments that will improve the implementation of air transport solutions, making it possible to reduce the global ecological footprint. Leveraging on the Company's unique understanding of aerospace industry specificity, the Company is engaged in a constant dialogue with policy makers, directly or through trade associations. Such engagements are performed in compliance with the Ethical business conduct principles described in section 1.2.14 of the Code of Conduct and the Company's Responsible Lobbying Charter. In 2022, as a member of the industry association ICCAIA through the ASD, the Company actively participated in the International Civil Aviation Organization's work to define guidance, standards and recommended practices aimed at minimizing emissions from aircraft and engines, as well as defining policies with regards to local air quality, climate change, and noise. Specifically, in 2022 the Company has been an active member supporting the adoption of a climate Long Term Ambitious Goal to the ICAO 41 st assembly in October. At European level, the Company has engaged with the European Commission on climate change policies discussions such as the ReFuel Aviation initiative as part of the Fit for 55 regulatory package. At national level, the Company has engaged with France, Spain, UK and Germany in order to exchange on federal policies on climate change. In particular in France, the Company has cooperated with the CORAC on research for technology and fuels. As well, in 2022 the Company has directly discussed with the European Commission supporting the development of a carbon removal framework with high environmental integrity in Europe. The Company's positions on climate-related topics are consistent with the principles and axis of the transformation described in its transition plan, where it considers that emerging regulatory frameworks could be a decisive enabler. The Company is also engaged in a number of initiatives addressing its less material carbon footprints where relevant. When impactful and connected to its know-how, the Company engages in various projects with local communities or partners, and develops projects beyond its immediate core business that could generate meaningful CO2 savings. In 2022, in partnership with Toulouse Metropole, Tisseo and Sopra-Steria, a smartphone application called Ecomode was developed to incentivise the shift to collective commuting or low-carbon individual mobility modes. This has been deployed amongst employees in Toulouse and is of potential benefit to the citizens of all 37 municipalities of the Toulouse Metropole. Such an initiative benefits both the Company and the whole local community. At site level, cycling to work is encouraged by improved infrastructures, cycling paths made safer in collaboration with local authorities, and periodic cycle to work events organized. Car parks are being equipped with charging devices to encourage the use of electric cars, and Company car policy has evolved in order to incentivize the selection of low-carbon vehicles by collaborators. Through its Airseas joint-venture, the Company is co-developing kite solutions for sea vessels as complementary carbon-free propulsion, with a potential to ultimately equip a significant part of the global maritime fleet and generate up to 20% emission savings. Through its Community Impact Policy - including corporate activities and its non-profit arm the Airbus Foundation - the Company is committed to support vulnerable communities through disaster response at a time when climate-related catastrophes are getting more intense and frequent. The Company works in collaboration with local knowledgeable associations, as well as with partners that have a global reach. Support can take the form of fund-raising, the coordination of humanitarian flights using Airbus's products or logistic aircraft, and providing satellite imagery for partners to properly assess a disaster's scope and adapt their response plans. For instance, in 2022 the Airbus Foundation organized humanitarian missions, including providing free-of-cost chartering of air transport, in response to Cyclone Batsirai in Madagascar, Cyclone Rai in the Philippines and also following the flooding in Pakistan. A mission was also organized to deliver medical supplies to populations in Somalia impacted by severe famine. Over 43 satellite image requests were made on the dedicated portal platform, with partners conducting monitoring including flooding and weather impacts. Linked to the industrial nature of its operations, the Company's activities may cause adverse impacts on the natural environment. The Company strives to reduce this impact in compliance with applicable standards, laws and regulations. As covered in this section, pollution includes air pollution, soil pollution, water pollution and noise pollution caused by Airbus's activities and value chain. Pollution linked to the emission of volatile organic compounds is a primary focus of the Company, as it arises from aircraft painting and cleaning activities. Light pollution has been deemed to be non-material to the Company's value chain. Pollution may impact the Company primarily through the potential consequences of business disruption arising from constraints on activities in the Company's value chain in case of local pollution peaks, for instance. Eventually, non-managed pollution risks could disrupt the Company's ability to operate, e.g. deliver its products to customers or imply de-polluting costs. Pollution is regulated around the world. Overall, the Company's compliance with applicable standards, laws and regulations is part of the operating licenses granted by local authorities. In this regard, the Company is reportedly subject to multiple regulatory provisions, including those of the EU Industrial Emissions Directive. The IED notably applies to the management of the Company's industrial activities in France, Germany and Spain. This Directive requests operators of certain installations to establish the state of soil and surface and groundwater contamination at the start of operations, apply for a permit that includes conditions to prevent soil pollution through application of the best available techniques, and take necessary action upon definitive cessation to return the site to its initial status. Beyond this directive, the law on soil management is covered under several national texts which may differ from one country to another, as well as in the permits issued for the Company's industrial activities. Specific regulations cover the topic of chemical substances, with the main regulations covering the Company's activities and products being Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of chemicals; Restriction of Hazardous Substances; Persistent Organic Pollutants; and Biocidal Products.  Environmental risk and opportunities are managed following the Company's ERM system. Substance-related risks are included in the Company's top risks, as reported in the Risk Factors section. In addition, the Company's ISO 14001 certified EMS notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures. For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company's ERM process. While the EMS sets requirements, actual deployment, concrete means and measures are managed at site level and adapted to the nature of a site's industrial activities and to applicable regulations. For instance, in Toulouse and linked to flight test activities, concerned employees systematically follow dedicated training sessions, including on instructions for fuel handling or on procedures to follow in case of an incident. Also, each year, more than five spill-related emergency situations are conducted to test defined emergency plans. At least one emergency situation is performed in coordination with local authorities. Substance substitution may also lead to the use of new chemicals with more VOC emissions which need to be monitored. Overall, in 2022, emitted VOCs increased 7.5% year-on-year, reflecting the increase in aircraft production rate compared to 2021. Many chemicals used in the global aerospace industry to achieve high levels of product quality and meet stringent technical performance, airworthiness and reliability requirements are subject to strict regulations. These regulations impact key processes and products, such as surface treatments, paints and fire protection. The Company remains committed to replacing such substances in products and processes. To help achieve this, it has put in place a portfolio of activities and projects, working with suppliers to identify, develop, qualify and deploy new technologies and solutions that avoid the use of substances classified as posing a risk to human health or the environment, while still satisfying airworthiness, certification and performance requirements. The Company also engages with suppliers to promote the adoption of a similar approach through regular communication and, more widely, by working together with the aerospace industry to promote worldwide harmonization of regulations and ways of working, taking into account the sector's safety and life-cycle specialties. Using information obtained from its own design and suppliers, the Company tracks, records, assesses and declares regulated chemicals and materials. Since 2011, the Company has analyzed the impact of over 1,100 substances, and qualified and deployed substitutes for over 100 substances in 300 products. The Company invests substantial time and resources in research and development for technologies that use alternatives to regulated substances. When it can be demonstrated that these technologies meet the strict safety and reliability criteria required for aviation, the Company seeks to implement them in its aircraft design and manufacturing. For example, the Company is, in cooperation with its suppliers, developing, qualifying and progressively deploying on all its new aircraft, chromate-free corrosion protection and paint systems for aluminum structures. Another example is the halon replacement project that researches alternatives to halon, a highly regulated ozone depleting substances family, used in the fire extinguishing systems in engines and cargo areas. Several fire extinguishing technical solutions are now being tested on aircraft in flight conditions, with an objective to roll them out into production from 2027. Noise around the Company's sites can also be an important topic for neighboring communities. The Company is actively engaged with local authorities and the affected populations to minimize its impact, by adapting operating times and actively seeking to reduce the noise at the source. In Toulouse, the Company has launched the Median initiative, regrouping actors in charge of flight activities around the airport to find the most effective solution to reduce noise levels. The Company recognizes the challenges associated with depleting natural sources. This section covers its approach towards optimizing the use of materials end-to-end including product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations with a focus on waste when it comes to its own industrial operations. The Company identified three materials for which this approach is especially meaningful as they are essential to aircraft manufacturing: aluminum, titanium, and carbon fiber-reinforced plastics. While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials - e.g. the Company's aluminum consumption is estimated to be about 0.1% of the global market - it can figure among the main users for some highly specialized materials such as titanium or CFRP. The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As around 97% of a typical aircraft's life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Product weight optimization is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers expectations and the Company's order book. Optimizing the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company's competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Nevertheless, these materials can pose unique challenges in terms of supply, application and recycling. Addressing this topic requires an engagement and coordination with the end-to-end value chain, from the extraction stages to the eventual disposal or recycling. Of note, the human rights aspects that may be linked to the sourcing of materials, including conflict minerals, as well as the potential environmental impact linked to their extraction and processing are covered in the next sections. A number of related regulations apply to the Company globally, regionally and locally, such as the Basel Convention on the Control of Trans-boundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal, or the EU Waste Framework Directive. Finally, all considerations for optimizing material use shall under no circumstance be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. At the operational level, a multi-functional team leads this activity. Additionally, this was complemented at the end of 2021 for the Company's commercial aircraft activities by a specific cross program forum that reviews, prioritizes, and budgets waste or inventory-related initiatives. The Company's aircraft products make efficient use of these materials by being designed to operate for several decades with high utilization rates, being highly serviceable and repairable, and ultimately allowing for around 90% of their constituents by mass to be recovered, including recycling. The Company promotes the development of a circular economy model, and it is proactive in seeking ways to recover, reuse and recycle materials beyond their initial life. Overall, in order to minimize the impact of its activities, the Company's strategy relies on the approach: avoid, reduce, reuse-recycle-repair. Metallic waste accounts for more than 30% of the Company's site-generated waste. Considering the risk of resource depletion versus growing demand, the Company has kicked off in 2022 a dedicated transformation project related to the circularity of critical raw materials, especially non-ferrous metals, with a focus on the most material perimeter, its commercial aircraft activity. Weight reduction through material use optimization has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. Lately, the development of new technologies such as additive layer manufacturing, including for metallic components, enabled the redesign of parts, resulting in significant improvements by limiting material consumption to what structure and resistance require. For example, 3D printing technologies such as direct energy deposition can reduce the titanium raw material consumption by up to 70%. More optimized design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminum material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. The Company also focuses on the waste generated by its operations throughout the manufacturing process and has set an objective of reducing overall waste amounts by 20% by 2030, with 0% landfilling and 0% incineration without energy recovery. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the organization such as engineering, information management, procurement, industrial operations and facility management is actively working on a waste roadmap. Over the past years, the Company has focused on metering and on data robustness and accuracy for measuring waste, with a focus made on standardizing the practices towards waste collectors and in line with regulatory requirements for greater traceability. The objective is to enhance data monitoring, reporting, and forecasting capabilities. This includes a harmonization of definitions, processes and assumptions. Priority has been given to commercial aircraft activities due to the industrial ramp-up. In 2022, non-exceptional waste increased by 3.7%, largely explained by the commercial aircraft production ramp up context and people returning to the workplace after the COVID-19 period, impacting general waste. The proportion landfilled or incinerated without energy recovery amounted to an estimate of 23%. In the Company's European operations, the main sources of hazardous waste are contaminated packaging and chemical waste, especially waste from surface treatment activities, oil, fuel and various chemicals. While chemical waste reduction remains a priority, this is a topic also driven by chemical regulations, the evolution of which may impact the roadmap's ambition for reducing waste as well as its timing. The Company's components are designed to last over the average aircraft service lifetime, which can exceed 20 years. Some components, called life-limited parts, have a shorter lifetime, but still maximized considering physical resistance, airworthiness and safety requirements. Second Life With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole program lifetime are a priority. The Company's products are designed to be repaired when damaged by a number of maintenance, repair and operations companies worldwide and spare parts providers. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. LLPs can be overhauled to serve other operators, routes or missions. In particular, passenger-to-freighter conversions are frequently considered to extend the lifetime of aircraft. Recycling Waste generated by the Company's industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimizing their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company sends over half of its waste to be recycled. It is currently working on specific initiatives to further increase this rate, such as specific loop creation for titanium in order to reintegrate chips or end-of-life parts into raw material manufacturing processes. In addition, the Company sources material volumes of recycled materials that are used for the manufacturing of aircraft. As an order of magnitude, in 2022, 20% to 50% of aluminum products delivered to the Company came from recycled raw materials. Finally, more than 90% of an aircraft's weight can be recovered at end-of-life through a selective dismantling process. For example, TARMAC Aerosave joint venture, provides such reverse manufacturing services, including dismantling, sorting, packaging for reuse or sending to relevant waste collectors while ensuring parts traceability, in various locations in France and Spain. A memorandum of understanding between the Company and the city of Chengdu was signed in 2022 for the launch of an aircraft life cycle management service in China. Overall, TARMAC has recycled over 300 aircraft since 2007. The Company invests in LCAs for environmental impact accounting associated with a specific product, in accordance with the requirements specified in the ISO 14040 standard. Detailed LCA studies have been finalized for the A220-100, A220-300, A320neo and A350-900, covering over 95% of the Company's deliveries of commercial aircraft products in 2022. The Company is currently working together with the European Union Aviation Safety Agency in the frame of the Product Environmental Footprint initiative on the framework, to enable the publication of verified and standardized data in the future. In addition, the Company is deploying frameworks enabling environmentally-conscious design choices to reduce the footprint of projects and optimize aspects such as product end-of-life management and critical raw materials usage. For instance, in 2022 environmental assessments have complemented research & technology decision-making processes related to commercial aircraft activities. Besides, as an example and part of its Eco-design initiative, the Defense and Space Division used LCA for the development of the Sentinel satellites that are built for the ESA. The Company's Defense and Space Division is engaged in a strategic transformation process which will focus on increasing the circularity of its products, and expanding its product environmental impact assessment capabilities to include topics such as hybrid propulsion. These assessments would be performed in addition to the regular LCA assessments for satellites. The Company leverages digitization as an enabler to optimize and reduce its environmental footprint. For example, some applications seek to improve design and material utilization, or to optimize usage of critical resources. At the same time, traceability of parts is essential to facilitate recycling. The Company reports on marking parts to facilitate the ability to reuse, recycle, and repair, while complying with legal provisions applicable to the sector. In addition, the Company has launched a dedicated traceability project to increase data availability and transparency from the aircraft Bill of Materials and leveraging on digital capabilities in collaboration with its supply chain. As recommended by the EU Critical Raw Material framework, the Company has created and is maintaining a dedicated Company framework - CRM. It is an internal methodology to assess that criticality of raw materials has been developed on the axis of supply risk, environmental and ethical impacts. Based on this, a regularly updated watch list of the most critical raw materials for the Company has been defined to influence design choices. The mapping of CRM in Company's products is currently ongoing, based on available bill of materials, in the frame of an internal project. Additionally, the methodology is currently being reviewed and improved by an external party, prior to being delivered in 2023. Competence Management Circularity is a part of the Company's sustainability and environment competency strategy. Accordingly, related training modules have been identified and are in the process of being integrated in the Company's training catalogue. The Company's water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around 15% of the water purchased or withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as surface treatment, machining, non-destructive testing and painting. This section covers both withdrawal and discharge. Water consideration is included in the Company's LCA approach. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company and its supply chain to ensure business continuity. The Company analyses current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company's activities have the greatest impact on water resources and prioritize actions in these areas. This analysis is based on the World Resources Institute's Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool. Of note, the Company has also identified water as a relevant topic in its supply-chain roadmap and is currently assessing water-related impacts and risks in the supply chain. Due diligence aspects with regards to the potential environmental impact on water resources in the Company supply chain are described in section 1.2.15 Responsible Supply Chain. Water discharge quality is managed by each site directly to ensure compliance with applicable local regulatory requirements. The Airbus Environmental Policy and overall governance, as described in - 1.2.2 Climate Change are applicable to water. Environmental risk and opportunities, including the ones related to water, are managed following the Company's ERM system, as described in the section 1.2.2 Climate Change. In addition, water has been identified as relevant to climate change physical risks: work is ongoing to update the above-mentioned risks in line with the TCFD. In order to better monitor its approach with regards to water management, the Company has set the following 2030 targets: 50% reduction in purchased water; 0% increase in water withdrawal. The Company's water usage is mostly linked to sanitation and general uses, while the rest is used in production-related processes. The underlying approach is to reduce the use of potable water for uses where it is not necessary, while ensuring that the overall withdrawal does not increase. While all concerned sites are working towards these targets to ensure advanced water management practices are implemented, a keen focus is put on areas with current or future high water stress levels. For example, local water stress levels are used as a criterion for prioritising the funding of projects and for selecting sites for the launch of pilot projects. The strategy is based on the following eight pillars. In 2022, water withdrawal volumes increased by about 10% compared to 2021, mainly as a result of people returning to the workplace after the COVID-19 period. When compared to 2015 baseline, water withdrawal reduced by 2.5% while purchased water dropped by 13%. In 2022, leaks were identified and fixed in Blagnac and Mirabel, with an estimated impact of less than 2% on total water withdrawal. The Company recognizes the considerable pressure planet Earth is facing as a result of loss of biodiversity. The latest 2019 report of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services demonstrates that the health of ecosystems is deteriorating more rapidly than ever and the 2021 IPBES-IPCC co-sponsored workshop shows the clear inter-dependencies between climate action and biodiversity protection. In this context, the Company intends to improve its understanding of the impacts its activities and biodiversity may have on each other alongside the inter-dependencies of this subject with the Company's ongoing climate actions. Moreover, the Company aims to contribute to the updated and new goals and objectives for biodiversity. These include the ones for 2030 and 2050 agreed at the 15th Conference of the Parties of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity in December 2022, in Montreal, according to which all signatory countries should update their National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans as well as National Biodiversity Finance Strategies. Key goals are also ones set by the European Union in the EU Green Deal and the EU Biodiversity Strategy of 2020 that place the European Union at the forefront of this transformation. The Airbus Environmental Policy and overall governance, as described in 1.2.2 Climate Change, applies to the biodiversity topic. Environmental risk and opportunities are managed following the Company's ERM system, as described in the section 1.2.2 Climate Change. In order to progress its understanding of the impact of its activities on biodiversity, the Company has identified the IPBES report as a relevant framework to follow. In 2022, the Company launched a project to compile an inventory of potential impacts across the five drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, climate change, pollution and invasive non-native species. Meanwhile, the Company presumes that the most material biodiversity loss impact is linked to the impact of its commercial aircraft activities on climate change and, as such, efforts are prioritized alongside the existing climate-related initiatives. In addition, a number of mitigation actions have been started in relation to the other drivers. Overall, the ground footprint of the aviation industry, as a global means of transportation, is limited to local sites; mostly airports and related activities. As for the Company, its operations are located at a number of industrial sites. When building a new site or extending an existing one, the Company engages with local partners on conservation and remediation projects to preserve flora and fauna that were impacted by the Company's industrial activities. This is done in line with applicable legal requirements. In France, for instance, during and after construction works, the Company strives to apply the Avoid, Reduce, Compensate mitigation hierarchy, as well as establish a budget for compensation measures that goes beyond the duration of the project. This requires identifying areas rich in biodiversity , identifying the potential impacts on biodiversity, and carrying out, if required, the necessary biodiversity inventories and the applicable deadlines in the timeline of each project. The Company's space products, and more especially Earth-observation satellites, play an instrumental role in the understanding of biodiversity evolution. In addition, the Company through its corporate community work and its Airbus Foundation has supported a number of biodiversity projects that aim to help preserve wildlife and natural ecosystems at a community level, such as contributing to the International Union for Conservation of Nature forest restoration project.